 CunnIng asseTs
 Base of Influence: This asset is special, and is required 
for purchasing or upgrading units on a particular 
world. Any damage done to a Base of Influence is 
also done to a faction’s hit points. The cost of a 
Base of Influence equals its maximum hit points, 
which can be any number up to the total maxi
mum hit points of its owning faction. A faction’s 
bases of influence don’t count against their maxi
mum assets. A Base of Influence can only be pur
chased with the Expand Influence action.
 Blackmail: Selectively degrade the effectiveness of an 
asset. Any attempt to attack or defend against 
Blackmail loses any bonus dice earned by tags.
 Boltholes: Equipped with a number of postech inno
vations to make cleaning them out a costly and 
dangerous pursuit. If a faction Special Forces 
or Military Unit asset on the same planet as the 
Boltholes suffers damage sufficient to destroy it, 
it is instead set at 0 HP and rendered untouchable 
and unusable until it is repaired to full strength. 
If the Boltholes are destroyed before this happens, 
the asset is destroyed with them.
 Book of Secrets: Exhaustively cataloged psychometric 
records on important and influential local figures, 
allowing uncanny accuracy in predicting their ac
tions. Once per turn, a Book of Secrets allows the 
faction to reroll one die for an action taken on 
that world or force an enemy faction to reroll one 
die. This reroll can only be forced once per turn, 
no matter how many Books of Secrets are owned.
 Covert Shipping: Quiet interstellar asset transport. Any 
one Special Forces unit can be moved between any 
worlds within three hexes of the Covert Shipping 
at the cost of one FacCred.
 Covert Transit Net: Facilities web an area of space with 
a network of smugglers and gray-market freighter 
captains. As an action, any Special Forces assets 
can be moved between any worlds within three 
hexes of the Covert Transit Net.
 Cracked Comms: A cryptographic asset for the inter
ception and deciphering of enemy communica
tions. Friendly fire can be induced with the right 
interference. If the Cracked Comms succeeds in 
defending against an attack, it can immediately 
cause the attacking asset to make an attack against 
itself for normal damage or counterattack results.
 Cyberninjas: Outfitted with the latest in personal 
stealth cyberware, cyberninjas are designed to 
avoid all but the most careful scans.
 Demagogues: Popular leaders of a particular faith or 
ideology that can be relied upon to point their 
followers in the direction of maximum utility.
 False Front: This asset allows a faction to preserve more 
valuable resources. If another asset on the planet 
suffers enough damage to destroy it, the faction 
can sacrifice the false front instead to nullify the 
killing blow. 
Informers: Minions that lace a planet’s underworld, 
watchful for intruders. They can choose to Attack 
a faction without specifying a target asset. On a 
successful Cunning vs. Cunning attack, all Steal
thed assets on the planet belonging to that faction 
are revealed. Informers can target a faction even if 
none of their assets are visible on a world; at worst, 
they simply learn that there are no stealthed assets.
 Lobbyists: Usable to block the governmental permis
sion that is sometimes required to buy an asset or 
transport it into a system. When a rival faction 
gains permission to do so, the Lobbyists can make 
an immediate Cunning vs. Cunning test against 
the faction; if successful, the permission is with
drawn and cannot be re-attempted until next turn. 
Organization Moles : These can subvert and confuse 
enemy assets, striking to damage their cohesion.
 Panopticon Matrix: These facilities weave braked-AI 
intelligence analysts into a web of observation 
capable of detecting the slightest evidence of in
truders on a world. Every rival Stealthed asset on 
the planet must succeed in a Cunning vs. Cunning 
test at the beginning of every turn or lose their 
Stealth. The owner also gains an additional die 
on all Cunning attacks and defenses on that planet.
 Party Machines: Political blocks control particular cities 
or regions… blocks that are firmly in control of 
the faction. Each turn, a Party Machine provides 
1 FacCred to its owning faction.
 Popular Movements: A planet-wide surge of enthusiasm 
for a cause controlled by the faction. This sup
port pervades all levels of government, and the 
government always grants any asset purchase or 
movement requests made by the faction.
 Saboteurs: Minions rained in launching strikes against 
enemy operations. An asset attacked by saboteurs 
cannot apply any Use Asset Ability action until the 
start of the attacking faction’s next turn. This ap
plies whether or not the attack was successful.
 Seditionists: These asset sap a target’s loyalty and will to 
obey. For a cost of 1d4 FacCreds, the Seditionists 
can attach themselves to an enemy asset. Until 
they attach to a different asset or no longer share 
the same planet, the affected asset cannot attack. 
If the asset is destroyed, the Seditionists survive.
 Seductresses: They and their male equivalents subvert 
the leadership of enemy assets. As an action, a Se
ductress can travel to any world within one hex. 
As an attack, a Seductress does no damage, but an 
asset that has been successfully attacked imme
diately reveals any other Stealthed assets of that 
faction on the planet. Only Special Forces units 
can attack a Seductress.

that the asset can perform a special action, and “S” indicates that the asset has a special feature or cost.
 Smugglers: Men and women skilled in extracting per
sonnel. For one FacCred, the smugglers asset can 
transport itself and/or any one Special Forces unit 
to a planet up to two hexes away.
 Stealth: Not an asset, per se, but a special quality that 
can be purchased for another Special Forces asset 
on the planet. An asset that has been Stealthed 
cannot be detected or attacked by other factions. 
If the unit normally requires the permission of a 
planetary government to be moved onto a planet, 
that permission may be foregone. An asset loses 
its Stealth if it is used to attack or defend.
 Transport Lockdown: These techniques involve selec
tive pressure on local routing and shipping com
panies. On a successful Cunning vs. Cunning at
tack against a rival faction, the rival faction cannot 
transport assets onto that planet without spending 
1d4 FacCreds and waiting one turn.
 Treachery: Traitors can attack an enemy asset. On a 
successful attack, the Treachery asset is lost, 5 Fac
Creds are gained, and the targeted asset switches 
sides to join the traitor’s faction, even if the faction 
does not otherwise have the attributes necessary.
 Tripwire Cells: These observers are alert to the arriv
al of stealthed units. Whenever a stealthed asset 
lands or is purchased on a planet with tripwire 
cells, the Cells make an immediate Cunning vs. 
Cunning attack against the owning faction. If suc
cessful, the asset loses its stealth.
 Vanguard Cadres: Followers of the movement are in
spired sufficiently to take up arms and fight on 
behalf of their leadership.

Asset HP Cost TL Type Attack Counter Note
 Cunning 1
 Smugglers 4 2 4 Starship Cunning vs. Wealth, 1d4 damage None A
 Informers 3 2 0 Special Forces Cunning vs. Cunning, special None A, S
 False Front 2 1 0 Logistics Facility None None S
 Base of Influence * * 0 Special None None S
 Cunning 2
 Lobbyists 4 4 0 Special Forces Cunning vs. Cunning, special None S
 Saboteurs 6 5 0 Special Forces Cunning vs. Cunning, 2d4 damage None S
 Blackmail 4 4 0 Tactic Cunning vs. Cunning, 1d4+1 damage None S
 Seductress 4 4 0 Special Forces Cunning vs. Cunning, special None A, S
 Cunning 3
 Cyberninjas 4 6 4 Special Forces Cunning vs. Cunning, 2d6 damage None
Stealth-2 0 Tactic None None S
 Covert Shipping 4 8 4 Logistics Facility None None A, S
 Cunning 4
 Party Machine 10 8 0 Logistics Facility Cunning vs. Cunning, 2d6 damage 1d6 damage S
 Vanguard Cadres 12 8 3 Military Unit Cunning vs. Cunning, 1d6 damage 1d6 damage
Tripwire Cells 8 12 4 Special Forces None 1d4 damage A, S
 Seditionists 8 12 0 Special Forces None None A
 Cunning 5
 Organization Moles 8 10 0 Tactic Cunning vs. Cunning, 2d6 damage None
 Cracked Comms 6 14 0 Tactic None Special S
 Boltholes 6 12 4 Logistics Facility None 2d6 damage S
 Cunning 6
 Transport Lockdown 10 20 4 Tactic Cunning vs. Cunning, special None S
 Covert Transit Net 15 18 4 Logistics Facility None None A
 Demagogue 10 20 0 Special Forces Cunning vs. Cunning, 2d8 damage 1d8 damage
Cunning 7
 Popular Movement 16 25 4 Tactic Cunning vs. Cunning, 2d6 damage 1d6 damage S
 Book of Secrets 10 20 4 Tactic None 2d8 damage S
 Treachery 5 10 0 Tactic Cunning vs. Cunning, Special None S
 Cunning 8
 Panopticon Matrix 20 30 5 Logistics Facility None 1d6 damage. S
 A “P” special code indicates a need for planetary governmental permission to raise or transport in the asset. “A” means 

 forCe asseTs
 Base of Influence: This asset is special, and is required 
for purchasing or upgrading units on a particular 
world. Any damage done to a Base of Influence is 
also done to a faction’s hit points. The cost of a 
Base of Influence equals its maximum hit points, 
which can be any number up to the total maxi
mum hit points of its owning faction. A faction’s 
bases of influence don’t count against their maxi
mum assets. A Base of Influence can only be pur
chased with the Expand Influence action.
 Beachhead Landers: A collection of short-range, 
high-capacity spike drive ships capable of moving 
large numbers of troops. As an action, the asset 
may move any number of assets on the planet, in
cluding itself, to any world within one hex at a cost 
of one FacCred per asset moved.
 Blockade Fleets: A ragtag lot of corsairs, pirates, priva
teers, and other deniable assets. When they suc
cessfully Attack an enemy faction asset, they steal 
1d4 FacCreds from the target faction as well. This 
theft can occur to a faction only once per turn, 
no matter how many blockade fleets attack. As an 
action, this asset may also move itself to a world 
within one hex.
 Capital Fleets: The pride of an empire, this is a collec
tion of massive capital warships without peer in 
most sectors. Capital fleets are expensive to keep 
flying, and cost an additional 2 FacCreds of main
tenance each turn. As an action, they may move 
to any world within three hexes of their current 
location. Planetary government permission is re
quired to raise a capital fleet, but not to move one 
into a system.
 Counterintel Units: These security units specialize in 
code breaking, internal security, and monitoring 
duties. They can crack open enemy plots long be
fore they have time to come to fruition.
 Cunning Traps: This asset covers all the myriad strata
gems of war, from induced landslides to spreading 
local diseases.
 Deep Strike Landers: These advanced transport ships 
are capable of moving an asset long distances. As 
an action, any one non-Starship asset, including 
itself, can be moved between any two worlds 
within three hexes of the deep strike landers, at a 
cost of 2 FacCreds. This movement can be done 
even if the local planetary government objects, al
beit doing so is usually an act of open war.
 Elite Skirmishers: These lightly-equipped troops are 
trained for guerrilla warfare and quick raids.
 Extended Theater: These facilities allow for transport
ing assets long distances. As an action, any one 
non-Starship asset, including itself, can be moved 
between any two worlds within two hexes of the 
extended theater, at a cost of 1 FacCred.
 Gravtank Formations: These tank formations are com
posed of advanced postech gravtank units that are 
capable of covering almost any terrain and crack
ing even the toughest defensive positions.
 Guerrilla Populace: Such assets reflect popular support 
among the locals and a cadre of men and women 
willing to fight as partisans.
 Hardened Personnel: These are the employees and sup
port staff of the faction that have been trained in 
defensive fighting and equipped with supply cach
es and hardened fallback positions.
 Heavy Drop Assets: These craft allow for the transport 
of resources from one world to another. As an 
action, any one non-Starship asset, including this 
one, may be moved to any world within one hex 
for one FacCred.
 Hitmen: Crudely-equipped thugs and assassins with 
minimal training that have been aimed at a rival 
faction’s leadership.
 Integral Protocols: A complex web of braked-AI sup
ported sensors and redundant security checks used 
to defeat attempts to infiltrate an area. They can 
defend only against attacks versus Cunning, but 
they add an additional die to the defender’s roll.
 Militia Units: Groups of lightly-equipped irregular 
troops with rudimentary military training but no 
heavy support.
 Planetary Defenses: Massive mag cannons and gravi
tic braker gun arrays designed to defend against 
starship bombardments and repel unauthorized 
landing. Planetary defenses can only defend 
against attacks by Starship-type assets.
 Postech Infantry: The backbone of most planetary 
armies, these well-trained soldiers are usually 
equipped with mag weaponry and combat field 
uniforms, and have heavy support units attached.
 Pretech Infantry: The cream of the stellar ground 
forces, elite troops kitted out in the best pretech 
weaponry and armor available, with sophisticated 
heavy support weaponry integral to the unit.
 Pretech Logistics: These assets represent caches, smug
glers, or internal research and salvage programs. 
As an action, a pretech logistics asset allows the 
owner to buy one Force asset on that world that 
requires up to tech level 5 to purchase. This asset 
costs half again as many FacCreds as usual, round
ed up. Only one asset can be purchased per turn.
 Psychic Assassins: Combat-trained psychics equipped 
with advanced pretech stealth gear and psitech 
weaponry. Psychic assassins automatically start 
Stealthed when purchased.
 Security Personnel: Standard civilian guards or police
men, usually equipped with nonlethal weaponry 
or personal sidearms.
 Space Marines: Heavily-armored specialist troops 
trained for ship boarding actions and opposed 
landings. As an action, they can move to any world 
within one hex of their current location, whether 
or not the planetary government permits it.
 Strike Fleets: Forces composed of frigate or cruiser-class 
vessels equipped with space-to-ground weaponry 
and sophisticated defenses against light planetary 
weaponry. As an action, they can move to any 
world within one hex of their current location.
 Zealots: Members of the faction so utterly dedicated 
that they are willing to launch suicide attacks or 
hold positions to the death. Zealots take 1d4 dam
age every time they launch a successful attack or 
perform a counterattack.
 
Asset HP Cost TL Type Attack Counter Note
 Force 1
 Security Personnel 3 2 0 Military Unit Force vs. Force, 1d3+1 damage 1d4 damage
Hitmen 1 2 0 Special Forces Force vs. Cunning, 1d6 damage None
Militia Unit 4 4 3 Military Unit Force vs. Force, 1d6 damage 1d4+1 damage P
 Base of Influence * * 0 Special None None S
 Force 2
 Heavy Drop Assets 6 4 4 Facility None None A
 Elite Skirmishers 5 5 4 Military Unit Force vs. Force, 2d4 damage 1d4+1 damage P
 Hardened Personnel 4 4 3 Special Forces None 1d4+1 damage
Guerrilla Populace 6 4 0 Military Unit Force vs. Cunning, 1d4+1 damage None
Force 3
 Zealots 4 6 0 Special Forces Force vs Force, 2d6 damage 2d6 damage S
 Cunning Trap 2 5 0 Tactic None 1d6+3 damage
Counterintel Unit 4 6 4 Special Forces Cunning vs Cunning, 1d4+1 damage 1d6 damage
Force 4
 Beachhead Landers 10 10 4 Facility None None A
 Extended Theater 10 10 4 Facility None None A
 Strike Fleet 8 12 4 Starship Force vs. Force, 2d6 damage 1d8 damage A
 Postech Infantry 12 8 4 Military Unit Force vs. Force, 1d8 damage 1d8 damage P
 Force 5
 Blockade Fleet 8 10 4 Starship Force vs. Wealth, 1d6 damage * None S
 Pretech Logistics 6 14 0 Facility None None A
 Psychic Assassins 4 12 4 Special Forces Cunning vs. Cunning, 2d6+2 damage None S
 Force 6
 Pretech Infantry 16 20 5 Military Unit Force vs. Force, 2d8 damage 2d8+2 damage P
 Planetary Defenses 20 18 4 Facility None 2d6+6 damage * S
 Gravtank Formation 14 25 4 Military Unit Force vs. Force, 2d10+4 damage 1d10 damage P
 Force 7
 Deep Strike Landers 10 25 4 Facility None None A
 Integral Protocols 10 20 5 Facility None 2d8+2 damage * S
 Space Marines 16 30 4 Military Unit Force vs. Force 2d8+2 damage 2d8 damage A
 Force 8
 Capital Fleet 30 40 4 Spaceship Force vs. Force, 3d10+4 damage 3d8 damage A, S
 A “P” special code indicates a need for planetary governmental permission to raise or transport in the asset. “A” means 
that the asset can perform a special action, and “S” indicates that the asset has a special feature or cost.

 WealTh asseTs
 Bank Assets: Once per turn, the faction can ignore one 
cost or FacCred loss imposed by another faction. 
This does not require an action. Multiple bank as
sets allow multiple losses to be ignored.
 Base of Influence: These follow the standard rules for 
Bases of Influence.
 Blockade Runners: These starship captains excel at 
transporting goods through unfriendly lines. As 
an action, a blockade runner can transfer itself or 
any one Military Unit or Special Forces to a world 
within three hexes for a cost of two FacCreds. 
They can even move units that would otherwise 
require planetary government permission to enter.
 Commodities Brokers: They substantially lessen the 
cost of large-scale investments by timing mate
rials purchases properly. As an action, the owner 
of a commodities broker can roll 1d8; that many 
FacCreds are subtracted from the cost of their next 
asset purchase, down to a minimum of half nor
mal price, rounded down.
 Franchise: This asset reflects a deniable connection 
with a local licensee for the faction’s goods and 
services. When a Franchise successfully attacks a 
enemy asset, the enemy faction loses one FacCred 
(if available), which is gained by the Franchise’s 
owner. This loss can happen only once a turn, no 
matter how many Franchises attack.
 Freighter Contract: A special link with heavy shipping 
spacers. As an action, the faction may move any 
one non-Force asset, including this one, to any 
world within two hexes at a cost of one FacCred.
 Harvesters: These gather the natural resources of a 
world, whether ore, biologicals, or other unpro
cessed goods. As an action, the Harvesters’ owning 
faction may roll 1d6. On 3+, gain one FacCred.
 Hostile Takeover: This asset can seize control of dam
aged and poorly-controlled assets. If a Hostile 
Takeover does enough damage to destroy an as
set, the target is instead reduced to 1 hit point and 
acquired by the Hostile Takeover’s owning faction.
 Laboratory: The lab allows a world to make hesitant 
progress in tech. The presence of a Laboratory 
allows assets to be purchased on that world as if it 
had Tech Level 4.
 Lawyers: Sophists in immaculate suits or charismatic 
tribal skalds, lawyers have the ability to tie an ene
my up in the coils of their own internal rules, dam
aging assets with confusion and red tape. Lawyers 
cannot attack or counterattack Force assets.
 Local Investments: These give the faction substantial in
fluence over the commerce on a world. Any other 
faction that tries to buy an asset on that planet 
must pay one extra FacCred. This money is not 
given to the investments’ owner, but is lost. This 
penalty is only applied once.
 Marketers: Deployed to confuse enemy factions into 
untimely investments. As an action, the marketers 
may test Cunning vs. Wealth against a rival fac
tion’s asset. If successful, the target faction must 
immediately pay half the asset’s purchase cost, 
rounded down, or have it become disabled and 
useless until this price is paid.
 Medical Center: Salvage and repair damaged assets. 
Once between turns, if a Special Forces or Mili
tary Unit asset on the world is destroyed, the fac
tion may immediately pay half its purchase cost 
to restore it with one hit point. Any Repair Asset 
action taken on that world costs one less FacCred 
for Special Forces and Military Units.
 Mercenaries: Groups of well-equipped, highly-trained 
soldiers willing to serve the highest bidder. Mer
cenaries have a maintenance cost of one FacCred 
per turn. As an action, Mercenaries can move to 
any world within one hex of their current location. 
To purchase or move a Mercenary asset to a planet 
requires government permission.
 Monopoly: An open or tacit stranglehold on certain vital 
businesses or resources on a world. As an action, 
owners of a monopoly may force one other faction 
with unstealthed assets on that world to pay them 
one FacCred. If the target faction can’t pay, they 
lose one asset of their choice on the world.
 Postech Industry: As an action, the owning faction can 
roll 1d6 for a Postech Industry asset. On a 1, one 
FacCred is lost, on a 2-4 one FacCred is earned, 
and a 5-6 returns two FacCreds. If money is lost 
and no resources are available to pay it, the Pos
tech Industry is destroyed.
 Pretech Manufactories: Rare, precious examples of 
functioning pretech industrial facilities, retrofit
ted to work without the benefit of specialized psy
chic disciplines. As an action, the owning faction 
can roll 1d8 for a Pretech Manufactory, and gain 
half that many FacCreds, rounded up.
 Pretech Researchers: A highly versatile team of research 
and design specialists capable of supporting lim
ited pretech… as long as they’re adequately fund
ed. Any world with Pretech Researchers on it is 
treated as tech level 5 for the purpose of buying 
Cunning and Wealth assets. Pretech researchers 
have a maintenance cost of 1 FacCred per turn.
 R&D Departments: These allow the smooth extension 
of wealth-creation and industrial principles to the 
farthest reaches of the faction’s operations. A fac
tion with an R&D department may treat all plan
ets as having tech level 4 for purposes of buying 
Wealth assets.
 Scavenger Fleets: These rag-tag armadas bring enor
mous technical and mercantile resources to their 
patrons, along with a facility with heavy guns. As 
an action, a Scavenger Fleet can be moved to any 
world within three hexes. Scavenger Fleets cost 2 
FacCreds a turn in maintenance.
 Shipping Combine: Transport large amounts of equip
ment and personnel between worlds. As an action, 
the combine may move any number of non-Force 
assets, including itself, to any world within two 
hexes at a cost of one FacCred per asset.
 Surveyors: Explore potential resource and investment 
options on worlds. The presence of a Surveyor 
crew allows one additional die to be rolled on 
Expand Influence actions. As an action, a surveyor 
crew can be moved to any world within two hexes.
 Transit Web: These facilities allow almost effortless re
location of all assets. For one FacCred, any num
ber of non-starship Cunning or Wealth assets may 
be moved between any two worlds within three 
hexes of the Transit Web. This may be done freely 
on the owner’s turn so long as the fee can be paid, 
and using the ability doesn’t require an action.
 Union Toughs: These bruisers don’t much like scabs and 
management, and they’re willing to take the fac
tion’s word on which people are which. They’re 
lightly armed and poorly trained, but they can in
filtrate to perform sabotage.
 Venture Capital: This asset grows resources out of 
seemingly nowhere, harvesting the best of entre
preneurship for the faction’s benefit. As an action, 
venture capital can be tapped. 1d8 is rolled; on a 1, 
the asset is destroyed, while on a 2-3 one FacCred 
is gained, 4-7 yields two FacCreds and 8 grants 
three FacCreds.

Asset HP Cost TL Type Attack Counter Note
 Wealth 1
 Franchise 3 2 2 Facility Wealth vs. Wealth, 1d4 damage 1d4-1 damage S
 Harvesters 4 2 0 Facility None 1d4 A
 Local Investments 2 1 2 Facility Wealth vs. Wealth, 1d4-1 damage None S
 Base of Influence * * 0 Special None None S
 Wealth 2
 Freighter Contract 4 5 4 Starship Wealth vs. Wealth, 1d4 damage None A
 Lawyers 4 6 0 Special Forces Cunning vs. Wealth, 2d4 damage 1d6 damage S
 Union Toughs 6 4 0 Military Unit Wealth vs. Force, 1d4+1 damage 1d4 damage
 Surveyors 4 4 4 Special Forces None 1d4 damage A, S
 Wealth 3
 Postech Industry 4 8 4 Facility None 1d4 damage A
 Laboratory 4 6 0 Facility None None S
 Mercenaries 6 8 4 Military Unit Wealth vs. Force, 2d4+2 damage 1d6 damage A, S, P
 Wealth 4
 Shipping Combine 10 10 4 Facility None 1d6 damage A
 Monopoly 12 8 3 Facility Wealth vs. Wealth, 1d6 damage 1d6 damage S
 Medical Center 8 12 4 Facility None None S
 Bank 8 12 3 Facility None None S
 Wealth 5
 Marketers 8 10 0 Tactic Cunning vs. Wealth, 1d6 damage None A
 Pretech Researchers 6 14 4 Special Forces None None S
 Blockade Runners 6 12 4 Starship None 2d4 damage A
 Wealth 6
 Venture Capital 10 15 4 Facility Wealth vs. Wealth, 2d6 1d6 damage A
 R&D Department 15 18 4 Facility None None S
 Commodities Broker 10 20 0 Special Forces Wealth vs. Wealth, 2d8 damage 1d8 damage A
 Wealth 7
 Pretech Manufactory 16 25 5 Facility None None S
 Hostile Takeover 10 20 4 Tactic Wealth vs. Wealth, 2d10 damage 2d8 damage S
 Transit Web 5 15 5 Facility Cunning vs. Cunning, 1d12 damage None S
 Wealth 8
 Scavenger Fleet 20 30 5 Starship Wealth vs. Wealth, 2d10+4 damage 2d10 damage.
 A “P” special code indicates a need for planetary governmental permission to raise or transport in the asset. “A” means 
that the asset can perform a special action, and “S” indicates that the asset has a special feature or cost.

