FACTIONS
 Interstellar merchant combines, tyrannical planetary 
empires, sinister cults of eugenic perfection… groups 
such as these all have a role to play in Stars Without 
Number. Such organized, motivated groups are known 
as factions, and this chapter describes ways in which a 
GM can use them to further events in a sector. Player 
characters that attain sufficient power and fame might 
even establish their own factions, and the rules below 
give ways to handle inter-faction fighting and the ad
vancement of each group’s goals.
 Using Factions in Your Game
 The faction system in Stars Without Number is intended 
to provide a GM with a constant stream of background 
activity, adventure hooks, and visible setting reactions 
to PC actions. It is an optional system, one that a GM 
can take or leave as their own campaign suggests, but 
it can provide an interested GM with tools to simplify 
the business of running the campaign’s background.
 The faction system is not meant to be a stand
alone game that doesn’t require GM involvement. It’s 
not balanced for equivalence between sides, isn’t de
signed to incentivize optimal play choices, and some 
situations will certainly require a GM to referee them. 
The system is, however, built to produce the kind of 
output that a working GM is likely to find most useful.
 Some GMs will have no use for a formalized fac
tion system. These people feel most comfortable sim
ply dictating the outcome of conflicts and ambitions 
among the assorted groups and organizations in their 
campaign. When two groups clash, the results will be 
determined by what the GM thinks is most reasonable.
 This is a perfectly valid way of doing things, and 
indeed, when a GM decides how some off-stage orga
nization interacts with a fully-statted faction they’re 
going to have to make calls like that anyway. Yet the 
disadvantages of such a method are twofold.
 First, it lacks surprise for the GM. By definition, 
the reasonable thing always happens, and even the 
occasional randomizer tossed in produces results that 
are to some degree predictable to the GM. History and 
current affairs are full of wildly unlikely-seeming out
comes, however, and sometimes the GM can benefit 
by seeing a genuinely shocking result percolate out of 
some conflict. Even in the absence of the adventure 
hooks such surprises create, not knowing exactly how 
her campaign is going to shake out helps keep a GM 
interested in events.
 Second, an unstructured system has few prompts 
to goad a GM into thinking of unexpected interactions 
between factions. A GM simply provided with a list of 
NPC groups to write events for will tend to reach for 
the interactions and outcomes that are foremost in their 
mind, implicitly going along with assumptions about 
how things should play out. If instead they’re handed a 
slow-burn struggle between a militant terrorist group 
with fanatical zealots for an asset and a eugenics-loving 
religion with a crack team of lawyers, they’re going to 
think somewhat harder about how these two factions 
might play out their conflict, and will get results that 
don’t automatically feed their assumptions.
 One of the easiest ways to use the faction system 
is as a news chyron for your campaign. After each fac
tion turn, you can boil down events to a few sentences 
apiece and hand them to your players at the start of the 
next gaming session, letting them know what’s on the 
news channels and underground gossip boards of your 
campaign. If your players get excited about one of the 
events, you can dedicate the next downtime between 
sessions to brewing up an adventure related to their 
efforts at involvement.
 Another use of the system is as a way to formalize 
the setting reaction to PC actions. If the last adven
ture involved the PCs utterly discrediting the leader 
of a political party you’re using as a faction, you might 
scratch off the Demagogue asset that the party had that 
represented that leader. A quick scribble gives you the 
news crawl next session telling the PCs that the leader 
had decided to step down to spend more time with 
her family.
 The factions you write up are not the only organi
zations and groups in your world, but they are the ones 
the PCs are most likely to care about or the ones most 
pertinent to their current activities. You don’t need to 
keep the same factions active all the time; if the cam
paign shifts focus halfway across the sector, you can 
simply freeze the local factions until the PCs get back in 
their zone of relevance. If you have the spare time and 
effort, you might even keep them running, letting the 
PCs discover how things shook out when and if they 
ever get back to that region of space.
 In time, the PCs themselves can start creating their 
own factions to contend with rivals and seek influence 
on a scale impractical for a lone wanderer. While PC 
factions use all the same rules and faction turn actions 
as NPC ones, they have the tremendous advantage of 
being the focus of a veteran adventuring party’s helpful 
interest. Almost anything that can be accomplished by 
faction turn actions can be done more quickly by the 
appropriate PC adventures.
 This, of course, is an easy way for a GM to let the 
players write their own adventure content. So long as 
the PCs care about their pet factions or allied groups, 
their own ambitions and desire to help will practically 
create whole sessions worth of adventure outlines for 
you. Important NPCs in rival groups will become hated 
nemeses, hostile assets will become the targets of their 
bad intent, and the players will constantly be on the 
lookout for ways to augment their allies. For the sake 
of your own time and effort, you should let them.
212• faCtionS, aSSetS, and turnS
 faCTIons, asseTs, and Turns
 A faction is any group that you intend to use as an im
portant actor in the sector. In theory, any organization 
could qualify as a faction; every planetary government, 
business, religion, or club could be described with the 
rules given here. Still, that kind of exhaustive catalog
ing is neither practical nor profitable. Faction status 
should be reserved for those organizations that will do 
things important to the PCs or the background world. 
You should not bother creating more factions for your 
game than you are actually using at that moment. Save 
your effort for the groups that count.
 It may be necessary to turn an organization into a 
faction in the course of play. If the PCs suddenly take a 
deep interest in a eugenic cult they recently faced on the 
jungle moon of Perihelion, it might be useful for the 
GM to turn the group into a formal faction, the better 
to understand how the PCs might injure it and what 
resources the cult might have to fight back. Or it might 
be that the PC group’s interstellar trading cartel faction 
tries to topple a world’s tyrannical government, thus 
making it worthwhile to define the tyrant’s resources.
 As a general rule, you shouldn’t have more than 
five or six factions at the start of your campaign, and 
fewer is quite possible. Fewer than three tend to make 
for too much stability, however, and might not gen
erate enough activity to make for interesting news 
reports and adventure hooks. Possible factions in a 
campaign might include criminal groups, local reli
gions, planetary governments, political movements, 
terrorist organizations, noble houses, or any other 
band that might conceivably be someone the players 
care about or some group that might possibly hire or 
oppose the PCs. 
Defining a Faction
 Factions have attributes consisting of six statistics, a 
homeworld, and one or more tags.
 Hit points measure a faction’s cohesion, morale, 
and group unity. The higher a faction’s hit points, the 
harder it is to break it up. A faction that loses hit points 
has lost cohesion somehow, either through the death 
of leadership, the demoralization of members, or the 
rise of fractious power blocs inside its structure. A fac
tion needs time to recover from hit point damage. A 
faction’s maximum hit points are based on its Force, 
Cunning, and Wealth, as given later in the chapter.
 Force rating is the faction’s general aptitude at ap
plying physical violence, measured on a scale ranging 
from 1 to 8. A rating of 1 implies an organization with 
little or no aptitude for physical coercion, while a rating 
of 8 might be appropriate for a regional hegemon with 
a powerful, expansionist military. A high Force rating 
doesn’t necessarily mean that the faction has much in 
the way of a standing army, but it does mean that the 
faction can think clearly about the use of force and is 
accustomed to military reasoning. Governments tend 
to have high Force ratings to represent police forces 
and military structures. Terrorist groups, mercenary 
bands, and other organizations that rely on brute vio
lence also tend to have high Force ratings.
 Cunning rating reflects the faction’s skills at es
pionage, infiltration, internal security, and covert 
manipulation of other groups. A rating of 1 implies a 
completely visible faction with no resources for resist
ing infiltration, while a rating of 8 implies a faction of 
Illuminati unknown to all but a handful of paranoid 
conspiracy-mongers with tendrils of influence reach
ing to the farthest star in the sector. Eugenics cults, ter
rorist groups, spy agencies, and some religious groups 
tend to favor a good Cunning score.
 Wealth rating indicates the faction’s commercial, 
scientific, and industrial resources. A Wealth score of 
1 means that the faction has little in the way of income 
or investments, no dedicated manufacturing facilities, 
and no laboratories or researchers available. A Wealth 
score of 8 is appropriate for some system-spanning 
merchant empire or the combine that runs the pretech 
manufactories of an untouched factory world.
 FacCreds are a measure of the faction’s general 
wealth and resources, spent to purchase and main
tain assets or carry out faction operations. A FacCred 
doesn’t necessarily represent a certain sum of credits so 
much as it represents logistics capability, available re
sources, and managerial focus. A faction on a primitive 
world may not have a single credit to its name, but its 
command of a legion of laborers and the food supplies 
necessary to feed them are a vast store of FacCreds all 
the same. All the credits in a sector do no good if they 
can’t be effectively translated into a useful asset.
 Factions also accumulate experience points. They 
gain these points from accomplishing goals, with the 
larger goals earning them correspondingly more expe
rience points. Once enough experience is accumulated 
the faction can spend it to improve a rating. The higher 
the rating, the more experience is necessary to raise it. 
It’s vastly more difficult to go from Force 7 to 8 than 
from Force 1 to 2.
 The faction’s homeworld represents the location 
of its core leadership and support. Factions can always 
purchase assets and take actions on their homeworld, 
even if they lack any other assets there. By the same 
token, an enemy can always launch attacks against the 
faction on their homeworld if the enemy is able to 
move in its own assets.
 Tags are special traits that relate to the faction’s 
nature or special aptitudes. A cabal of rebel conspira
tors might have the Secretive tag, which gives a bonus 
to resisting certain attacks, or Deep Roots, which gives 
them a bonus to operations on their homeworld. Most 
factions have one or two tags.
Faction Assets
 faCtionS, aSSetS, and turnS •213 
The Faction Turn
 Aside from the six statistics, faction also possess assets. 
Assets are facilities, contacts, trained units of specialists, 
or other specific objects, places, or groups of value. A 
regiment of postech infantry is an asset, as is a pretech 
manufactory, a master assassin, or an interstellar ship
ping company.
 Assets require certain ratings to support. A fleet 
of capital warships isn’t going to be useful to a faction 
with Force 3 no matter how much wealth the faction 
has. It just doesn’t have the infrastructure and institu
tional mindset to use such an asset effectively.
 Assets have hit points much like factions do. An as
set reduced to zero hit points by an attack is destroyed; 
either physically ruined, hopelessly scattered, totally 
demoralized, or lost to a rival buyer. Asset hit points 
can be regained with time for repair, reorganization, or 
culling members suborned by other powers.
 Assets have a purchase cost and sometimes a main
tenance cost, paid in FacCreds. The first turn that a 
faction fails to pay the maintenance cost of an asset, it 
becomes unavailable for use. If the maintenance cost 
isn’t paid the next turn, the asset is lost.
 Assets often have an Attack. When an asset is used 
to strike at another faction, the attack entry is used to 
determine what rating is attacked and the amount of 
hit point damage that is done by a successful hit. An 
asset without an Attack entry can’t be used to initiate 
a strike at an enemy faction.
 A Counterattack line indicates the damage an asset 
does to an unsuccessful attacker. If an attacking asset 
misses its strike against the target, the target’s Counter
attack entry damage is done. An asset without a Coun
terattack entry does no damage to a failed attacker. It’s 
quite possible to have an asset with no Attack but a 
powerful Counterattack, making it useless at offense 
but very dangerous to assault.
 Assets have a type, such as “Special Forces”, “Mil
itary Unit”, “Facility”, “Starship” or the like. This type 
is mostly relevant when factions wish to upgrade an 
asset, or some special tag applies only to assets of a 
certain type.
 Assets have a location, usually the planet on which 
they were purchased, though it might also be a deep
space habitat, a particular moon, or some other general 
geographical location. Assets cannot be used against 
different locations unless they are first transported 
there, usually by means of a logistical asset.
 Most assets also require a particular tech level to 
purchase. They can be transported to worlds with low
er tech levels, but they must be purchased on a planet 
with a sufficient level of technology.
 A faction may own no more assets of a particular 
type than they have points in the relevant rating. Thus, 
a faction with Force 3 can own three Force assets. In a 
pinch, a faction can exceed this total, but each asset over 
the maximum costs an additional FacCred in mainte
nance each turn.
 Faction actions are divided up by turns. As a rule of 
thumb, a faction turn happens once per month, or once 
after each adventure. Turns might happen more or less 
often depending on the GM’s preferred pace of events. 
Each faction can usually take one action per turn.
 At the beginning of each turn, roll a die that’s no 
smaller than the number of factions you have. Thus, if 
you’ve got six factions in the sector, roll a d6. If you’ve 
got nine, roll a d10, and so forth. Whatever number 
comes up is the faction that acts first; thus, if you roll 
a 4, the fourth faction on your list acts first. Then the 
one after it, and the one after that, and so forth, rolling 
over the top of the list when necessary.
 At the beginning of each turn, a faction gains Fac
Creds equal to half their Wealth rating rounded up plus 
one-quarter of their total Force and Cunning ratings, 
rounded down. Any maintenance costs must be paid 
at the beginning of each turn. Assets that cannot be 
maintained are unusable; an asset that goes without 
maintenance for two consecutive rounds is lost. A fac
tion cannot voluntarily choose not to pay maintenance.
 If a faction has no goal at the start of a turn, they 
may pick a new one. If they wish to abandon a prior 
goal, they may do so, but the demoralization and con
fusion costs them that turn’s FacCred income and they 
may perform no other action that turn.
 At the end of each faction turn, the GM should 
translate the turn’s events into a few lines of rumor or 
news that can be related to the PCs. A successful attack 
by the Lawyers of the Bright Dawn Guild on the Peri
helion government’s Union Toughs might be reported 
as “Neohuman rights activists on Perihelion applaud 
the election of Parminder Smith to the leadership of the 
government-sponsored Transit Workers Union. Miss 
Smith is a strong supporter of neohuman research and 
legal emancipation.”
 Acting During A Turn
 Factions can take several different types of actions, 
though generally only one action per turn. The list 
provided consists of the usual actions a faction might 
find useful; you should feel free to allow variations on 
the list depending on the particular situation. PC ad
ventures always exist outside of the faction turn econ
omy. If you run an adventure involving the PC group’s 
destruction of the Sorority of the Golden Flame’s secret 
laboratories on a volcanic planetoid, then the faction’s 
asset is simply destroyed, with no chance of resisting.
 A faction can only take one type of action per round, 
but they can perform that action on as many worlds as 
they wish. A faction that selects the Attack action, for 
example, can launch attacks on multiple worlds, while 
one that selects the Use Asset Ability action can use the 
special abilities of any or all assets they possess. This 
limit on the type of action allowed in a round tends 
to slow down events, allowing for the more gradual 
development of situations in play.
214• faCtion aCtionS
 faCTIon aCTIons
 The following list of actions includes the most com
mon activities a faction might choose to perform. The 
GM should feel free to add new action types, or allow 
alternate choices if a faction wishes to do something 
that doesn’t quite fit the list below. As a rule, a faction 
should only be able to do one thing per turn, but should 
be able to do that same thing with any or all assets.
 Attack: Attacking is the chief way by which a faction 
assaults a rival’s assets and organizational struc
ture. A successful attack can damage or destroy an 
enemy asset, or even damage the leadership and 
cohesion of an enemy faction. It’s up to the GM 
or players to describe an attack and its methods.
 Attacks can only be launched against known 
assets. If a rival has stealthed assets on a world, 
they cannot be targeted for an attack until they’ve 
been discovered by a faction’s intelligence agents. 
Attacks can only be launched against assets on the 
same world as the attacker.
 To launch an attack, the attacker selects one 
or more of their own assets and targets a rival fac
tion with assets on the same world. One at a time, 
each attacking asset is matched against a defending 
asset chosen by the defender. Each attacking asset 
can attack only once per turn, though a defending 
asset can defend as many times as the defender 
wishes, assuming it can survive multiple conflicts.
 Once matched, the attacker rolls 1d10 and 
adds the relevant attribute for the asset. For exam
ple, a military unit’s Attack might add the faction’s 
Force rating to the attack roll, while a cyberninja 
unit might add the faction’s Cunning to the attack 
roll. The defender then rolls 1d10 and adds the 
attribute that the attack targets. In the instance of 
the military unit, this might be an attack against 
Force, causing the defender to add their Force 
rating to the roll, while defending against the 
cyberninjas might require adding the defender’s 
Cunning rating. The Attack line of the attacking 
asset indicates which attribute to add to the attack 
roll and which to add to the defense roll.
 If the attacker’s roll exceeds the defender’s roll, 
the attack is a success. The defending asset suffers 
damage as given on the Attack line of the attacking 
asset. If the defender has a Base of Influence on the 
world, the defender may opt to let the damage by
pass the asset and hit the Base of Influence instead, 
causing damage to it and the faction hit points. If 
the asset or Base of Influence is reduced to zero 
hit points, it is lost.
 If the attacker’s roll is less than the defender’s 
roll, the attack fails. The defending asset can apply 
whatever damage their Counterattack line indi
cates to the attacking asset. If the defending asset 
has no Counterattack line, the attacker suffers no 
consequences for the failed attack.
 A tie on the roll results in both Attack and 
Counterattack succeeding. Both attacker and de
fender take damage as indicated.
 Buy Asset: The faction buys one asset on their home
world or another planet on which they have a 
Base of Influence. These assets take time to as
semble, and can neither attack, defend, nor grant 
their special benefits until the beginning of the 
faction’s next turn. The faction must have a suf
ficient rating to buy an asset, and the planet must 
have a tech level sufficient to support the asset’s 
creation. Only one asset can be purchased by a 
faction per turn.
 Change Homeworld: A faction can move to a different 
homeworld, if they have a Base of Influence on 
the destination planet. This action takes one turn, 
plus one more for each hex of distance between 
the old homeworld and the new. During this time 
the faction can initiate no actions.
 Expand Influence: The faction buys a Base of Influence 
asset on a planet on which they have at least one 
other asset. The faction then rolls 1d10+Cunning 
rating against similar rolls by every other faction 
on the planet. Any of the others that equal or 
beat the faction’s roll may make a free immedi
ate Attack action against the Base of Influence if 
they wish. Other assets present on the planet may 
defend against the attack as normal. The Base of 
Influence cannot be used until the beginning of 
the faction’s next turn.
 To buy a Base of Influence, the purchaser pays 
one FacCred for every hit point the base has, up 
to a maximum equal to the faction’s maximum 
hit points. Bases with few hit points are relatively 
peripheral outposts, easy to dislodge but cheap to 
erect. Bases with many hit points are significant 
strongholds that would hurt the faction badly to 
lose but are much harder to eliminate.
 Factions may use this action to buy additional 
hit points for a Base of Influence, paying one addi
tional FacCred up to the maximum HP allowed. It 
is possible to decrease a base’s hit points with the 
action as well, albeit without refunds. The base on 
a faction’s homeworld cannot be shrunk this way.
 Refit Asset: Change one asset to any other asset of the 
same type. If the new asset is of a more expensive 
type, pay the difference. The asset must be on a 
planet that allows the purchase of the new asset. 
Turning a militia squad into elite skirmishers 
requires a tech level 4 world and governmental 
permission, for example. A refitted asset is un
able to attack or defend until the beginning of the 
faction’s next turn.
Repair Asset/Faction: Heal damage to an asset or faction. 
faCtion aCtionS •215 
Locations are considered general to a specific star 
For one FacCred, an asset heals points of damage 
equal to the faction’s score in its ruling attribute. 
More damage can be healed in this single action, 
but the cost of repair increases by one FacCred 
for each further amount repaired- two FacCreds 
for the second amount healed, three FacCreds for 
the third amount healed, et cetera. If used to heal 
a faction, the faction regains hit points equal to 
the rounded average of its highest and lowest at
tribute ratings. This healing cannot be hurried by 
additional spending. Use of this action allows the 
faction to heal as many different assets as it wishes.
 Sell Asset: Gain half the FacCred cost of the asset, 
rounded down.
 Seize Planet: The faction seeks to become the ruling 
body of a world. The faction must destroy all 
unstealthed assets on the planet belonging to fac
tions who oppose their attempt before they can 
successfully take control. If all the assets cannot be 
destroyed in one turn, the faction must continue 
the attempt next turn until either successful or all 
of their own assets on that planet have been de
stroyed or have left the planet. No other actions 
can be taken in the meanwhile. Once all resistance 
has been crushed, the attacker must maintain at 
least one unstealthed asset on the world for three 
turns. If successful, they gain the Planetary Govern
ment tag for the world.
 Use Asset Ability: Use the special abilities of one or 
more assets, such as the transport ability of logis
tics assets, or the intelligence-gathering abilities 
of spy assets.
 Handling Special Cases
 When in doubt, a GM should simply make a judgment 
based on their own best sense of the situation. Despite 
this general case, there are a few more particular situ
ations that come up often enough to bear some specific 
guidance in handling them.
 Sometimes, a ground unit will choose to attack 
a starship unit, or some other unit that seems to be 
beyond their reach. As a general rule, you should allow 
this, and simply decide how it was that the ground unit 
was able to cause problems for the starships. Maybe 
they subverted officers, or sabotaged support facilities, 
or drove logistical suppliers out of business.
 Some assets require the permission of the plane
tary government to raise them on a particular world or 
move them into that world’s system. The necessity of 
this will depend on how advanced the planetary gov
ernment is and how direct the contact. A TL2 planetary 
government probably wouldn’t even notice the arrival 
of a capital fleet in their star system, let alone be able 
to do anything to prevent it. Even so, native lawyers, 
bribed offworlder officials, and hired mercenaries 
might still be able to harass a force the locals couldn’t 
bar from entering their territory.
 system rather than a particular world. The faction’s 
marketers might be operating out of the planetary cap
ital, but for purposes of location, they’re as much in the 
system as a Scavenger Fleet floating around the rim. 
Getting shuttles to and from wherever they need to go 
inside the system is not a problem for most factions.
 Sometimes two factions will want to merge for 
some reason. The efficiency of this will depend on how 
much the factions like each other and how close they 
are in function; give this propinquity a rating from 1, 
for two factions that hate each other and don’t do simi
lar things at all, to 9, for two factions that are in perfect 
synchrony. Use 6 for two factions of average similarity. 
Whenever you need to see how well the merger went, 
roll a compatibility check; 1d10 versus this number. If 
the roll is equal or less, it worked, and if it’s higher, the 
merger didn’t work so well in that regard.
 Now determine the Force, Wealth, and Cunning 
ratings for the new faction. For each one, roll a com
patibility check; on a success, use the higher of the two 
factions’ scores, while on a failure, use the lower one.
 For each asset, roll a compatibility check; on a suc
cess, the asset belongs to the new faction, on a failure, 
it’s forcibly sold. FacCreds are totaled between the two 
factions, and the merged faction gets all the Bases of 
Influence each originally had. Pick a new goal as well. 
If the faction has assets its new ratings can’t support, it 
keeps them, but can’t use Repair Asset on them.
 PC adventures always overrule faction die rolls. 
If the PCs undertake an adventure which results in 
the crippling or destruction of a hostile faction’s asset, 
that asset is destroyed without any need for dice. In 
the same vein, if they swoop in to rescue some asset 
that the dice declared was ruined and undertake an ad
venture that plausibly salvages the situation, that asset 
comes back into existence. The faction system is built 
to help create adventure hooks, not shut them down.
 By the same token, if a PC adventure seems to 
plausibly create an asset for a faction, then that should 
be credited to the group. It is entirely in your interest 
as a GM to let the players plot out adventure goals and 
find motivation in helping a faction. Every adventure 
they spend helping or harming a faction is one more 
hook of engagement with the campaign world and one 
less adventure idea you need to come up with.
 If your factions are too quiet with a lack of inter
esting conflict among them, don’t hesitate to create that 
conflict. A sector full of turtling factions that hide out 
and painstakingly build their resources doesn’t make 
for much engagement, so insert a personal grudge or 
add a gold-rush opportunity.
 When a faction buys an asset, they are not neces
sarily creating something ex nihilo. They might have 
always had that particular resource, but are only now 
mobilizing it effectively. A planetary government with 
no military assets doesn’t necessarily lack an army, it 
just lacks an army that is useful to its current goals.
216• buying and uSing aSSetS
 buyIng and usIng asseTs
 Assets can be normally purchased on any world that has 
a Base of Influence and sufficient tech level to support 
their creation. In a few cases, however, acquiring an 
asset requires more than just FacCreds and a planet.
 Starship-type assets cannot be purchased on a 
world with less than several hundred thousand inhab
itants unless they can explain how the ships are being 
provided or supported by another power. Planets with 
very small populations lack such major infrastructure.
 Some assets require the permission of a planetary 
government in order to purchase them or move them 
onto the planet. This is not a formality; the standing 
government’s forces can physically disrupt any attempt 
to recruit the asset on their world, or shoot it down in 
its vulnerable entry phase. Whether or not this permis
sion will be extended will usually depend on the fac
tion’s relationship with a planet’s government, though 
bribes of 1d4 FacCreds can occasionally suffice. Under 
no conditions will a government willingly permit the 
entry of assets powerful enough to overthrow them.
 Planetary governments cannot prevent the land
ing of assets without the permission-needed quality. 
Such assets are too unthreatening and nondescript to 
alert them until after they’ve already been formed or 
have landed. Of course, there is nothing stopping them 
from attacking these assets either directly or indirectly 
should they feel threatened.
 Only one asset can be purchased per turn by a 
given faction, and assembling it takes time. The asset 
can neither attack, defend, nor give any special benefits 
until the beginning of the buyer’s next turn.
 Using Faction Assets
 As its action for the turn, a faction can choose to use the 
special actions of one or more assets. They can trigger 
these special abilities in any order, but each form of as
set must be used all at the same time; you cannot trigger 
Heavy Drop Assets to move a Monopoly asset onto a 
world, activate the Monopoly ability to siphon cash, 
and then use another Heavy Drop Asset to move the 
Monopoly back offworld. All Heavy Drop Assets must 
be finished before Monopolies can be triggered, and 
so forth. Unless specified otherwise, all asset targets 
must be in the same stellar system with the acting assets.
 In some cases, assets are called to make a test 
against another faction, such as a Cunning vs. Wealth 
test. For these tests, the acting asset’s faction rolls 1d10 
and adds their score in the acting attribute, while the 
target faction rolls 1d10 and adds their score in the de
fending attribute. If the actor rolls higher than the de
fender, the action is successful. Certain tags may grant 
a faction extra dice for these rolls, in which case the 
highest d10 out of those rolled is used. These tests do 
not count as attacks, and no damage or counterattacks 
are triggered.
 Bases of Influence
 Bases of Influence are special assets, and use certain 
special rules. A faction cannot buy assets on a world 
without a Base of Influence, though it can move assets 
purchased elsewhere onto the planet, and it can always 
buy assets on its homeworld even if its Base of Influ
ence there is destroyed. Of course, that assumes it still 
has a Base of Influence somewhere else.
 First, a faction can only ever have one Base of In
fluence on a world at a time. Bases of Influence cannot 
be moved once in place. Bases of Influence cannot be 
purchased with a Buy Asset action. They can only be 
put in place with an Expand Influence action. Bases of 
Influence have a sale value of zero FacCreds.
 The cost of a Base of Influence is equal to its max
imum hit points, which can be up to the owning fac
tion’s maximum hit points. Bases of Influence do not 
count against a faction’s maximum assets.
 Damage done to a Base of Influence is also done 
directly to a faction’s hit points. If a Base of Influence 
is brought below zero hit points, the overflow damage 
is not counted against the owning faction’s hit points.
 As a consequence, a faction must decide how heav
ily to invest in a particular Base of Influence. A minor 
foothold on a world consisting of a base with few hit 
points is cheap and risks limited harm to the faction 
should it be destroyed, but it’s also more vulnerable to 
being wiped out by a rival group.
 It’s quite possible for a faction to be effectively 
destroyed by smashing enough heavily-invested Bases 
of Influence on other worlds. While the homeworld’s 
Base might be in perfect condition, the faction has so 
badly overextended itself in failed expansion that it 
can no longer sustain itself as a going concern. The 
resources and personnel that the homeworld needed 
to import are no longer available, and the credits and 
effort spent on the now-destroyed Bases are wasted. 
The backlash from this can be ruinous to any faction.
 Every faction also has a homeworld. A homeworld 
is always automatically equipped with a Base of Influ
ence with maximum hit points. If a faction moves its 
homeworld to a planet that already has a Base of Influ
ence, the base on the new homeworld has its hit points 
set to the maximum possible and the homeworld’s Base 
of Influence swaps in the hit point value that the des
tination world’s base originally had.
faCtion goalS •217 
faCTIon goals
 Factions usually have motivations and goals beyond 
simple existence. To grow, a faction needs to accom
plish goals that are in line with their leadership’s pur
poses. Successful achievement of these goals helps the 
faction grow in strength and influence.
 A faction can pursue one goal at a time. Once a goal 
is successfully attained, the faction may select a new 
one at the beginning of their next turn or delay until a 
good opportunity arises. If a faction chooses to aban
don a goal, the demoralizing effect of it and the waste 
of preparations costs them that turn’s FacCred income, 
and they cannot perform any other action that turn.
 A faction that successfully accomplishes a goal 
gains experience points equal to the goal’s difficulty. 
This experience may be saved, or spent at the beginning 
of any turn to increase the Force, Cunning, or Wealth 
ratings of a faction. Optionally, the GM might allow a 
faction to buy a new tag if their deeds justify it.
 It’s the GM’s choice as to what might constitute 
an appropriate goal for a faction, but below are some 
potential goals and the difficulties attached to each.
 Military Conquest: Destroy a number of Force assets of 
rival factions equal to your faction’s Force rating. 
Difficulty is 1/2 number of assets destroyed.
 Commercial Expansion: Destroy a number of Wealth 
assets of rival factions equal to your faction’s 
Wealth rating. Difficulty is 1/2 number of assets 
destroyed.
 Intelligence Coup: Destroy a number of Cunning assets 
of rival factions equal to your faction’s Cunning 
rating. Difficulty is 1/2 number of assets destroyed.
 Planetary Seizure: Take control of a planet, becoming 
the legitimate planetary government. Difficulty 
equal to half the average of the current ruling 
faction’s Force, Cunning, and Wealth ratings. If 
the planet somehow lacks any opposing faction to 
resist the seizure, it counts as Difficulty 1.
 Expand Influence: Plant a Base of Influence on a new 
planet. Difficulty 1, +1 if the attempt is contested 
by a rival faction.
 Blood the Enemy: Inflict a number of hit points of dam
age on enemy faction assets or bases equal to your 
faction’s total Force, Cunning, and Wealth ratings. 
Difficulty 2.
 Peaceable Kingdom: Don’t take an Attack action for four 
turns. Difficulty 1.
 Destroy the Foe: Destroy a rival faction. Difficulty equal 
to 1 plus the average of the faction’s Force, Cun
ning, and Wealth ratings.
 Inside Enemy Territory: Have a number of stealthed 
assets on worlds with other planetary govern
ments equal to your Cunning score. Units that 
are already stealthed on worlds when this goal is 
adopted don’t count. Difficulty 2.
 Invincible Valor: Destroy a Force asset with a mini
mum purchase rating higher than your faction’s 
Force rating. Thus, if your Force is 3, you need to 
destroy a unit that requires Force 4 or higher to 
purchase. Difficulty 2.
 Wealth of Worlds: Spend FacCreds equal to four times 
your faction’s Wealth rating on bribes and influ
ence. This money is effectively lost, but the goal 
is then considered accomplished. The faction’s 
Wealth rating must increase before this goal can 
be selected again. Difficulty 2.
 Raising Faction Stats
 Faction attributes can be raised at the beginning of 
each turn, if enough experience points are available. 
The cost of raising a faction attribute rises as the rating 
rises. As a faction’s ratings improve, it becomes harder 
to destroy, and gains additional maximum hit points.
 The maximum hit points of a faction are equal to 4 
plus the experience point cost of the highest attributes 
in Force, Cunning, and Wealth they have attained. 
For example, a faction with Force 3, Cunning 2, and 
Wealth 2 has a maximum hit point total of 4 + 4 + 2 
+ 2 = 12 hit points. A brand-new faction with Force 1, 
Cunning 2, and Wealth 1 has a maximum hit point total 
of 4 + 1 + 2 + 1 = 8 hit points.
 Experience points spent by factions differ from 
those gained by PCs in that they are lost when they in
crease an attribute. Once a faction spends 4 XP to raise 
Force from 2 to 3, for example, those points are lost, 
and 6 more must be spent to raise Force from 3 to 4.
 Rating XP Cost Hit Point Value
 1-1
 2 2 2
 3 4 4
 4 6 6
 5 9 9
 6 12 12
 7 16 16
 8 20 20
218• Cunning aSSetS
 CunnIng asseTs
 Base of Influence: This asset is special, and is required 
for purchasing or upgrading units on a particular 
world. Any damage done to a Base of Influence is 
also done to a faction’s hit points. The cost of a 
Base of Influence equals its maximum hit points, 
which can be any number up to the total maxi
mum hit points of its owning faction. A faction’s 
bases of influence don’t count against their maxi
mum assets. A Base of Influence can only be pur
chased with the Expand Influence action.
 Blackmail: Selectively degrade the effectiveness of an 
asset. Any attempt to attack or defend against 
Blackmail loses any bonus dice earned by tags.
 Boltholes: Equipped with a number of postech inno
vations to make cleaning them out a costly and 
dangerous pursuit. If a faction Special Forces 
or Military Unit asset on the same planet as the 
Boltholes suffers damage sufficient to destroy it, 
it is instead set at 0 HP and rendered untouchable 
and unusable until it is repaired to full strength. 
If the Boltholes are destroyed before this happens, 
the asset is destroyed with them.
 Book of Secrets: Exhaustively cataloged psychometric 
records on important and influential local figures, 
allowing uncanny accuracy in predicting their ac
tions. Once per turn, a Book of Secrets allows the 
faction to reroll one die for an action taken on 
that world or force an enemy faction to reroll one 
die. This reroll can only be forced once per turn, 
no matter how many Books of Secrets are owned.
 Covert Shipping: Quiet interstellar asset transport. Any 
one Special Forces unit can be moved between any 
worlds within three hexes of the Covert Shipping 
at the cost of one FacCred.
 Covert Transit Net: Facilities web an area of space with 
a network of smugglers and gray-market freighter 
captains. As an action, any Special Forces assets 
can be moved between any worlds within three 
hexes of the Covert Transit Net.
 Cracked Comms: A cryptographic asset for the inter
ception and deciphering of enemy communica
tions. Friendly fire can be induced with the right 
interference. If the Cracked Comms succeeds in 
defending against an attack, it can immediately 
cause the attacking asset to make an attack against 
itself for normal damage or counterattack results.
 Cyberninjas: Outfitted with the latest in personal 
stealth cyberware, cyberninjas are designed to 
avoid all but the most careful scans.
 Demagogues: Popular leaders of a particular faith or 
ideology that can be relied upon to point their 
followers in the direction of maximum utility.
 False Front: This asset allows a faction to preserve more 
valuable resources. If another asset on the planet 
suffers enough damage to destroy it, the faction 
can sacrifice the false front instead to nullify the 
killing blow. 
Informers: Minions that lace a planet’s underworld, 
watchful for intruders. They can choose to Attack 
a faction without specifying a target asset. On a 
successful Cunning vs. Cunning attack, all Steal
thed assets on the planet belonging to that faction 
are revealed. Informers can target a faction even if 
none of their assets are visible on a world; at worst, 
they simply learn that there are no stealthed assets.
 Lobbyists: Usable to block the governmental permis
sion that is sometimes required to buy an asset or 
transport it into a system. When a rival faction 
gains permission to do so, the Lobbyists can make 
an immediate Cunning vs. Cunning test against 
the faction; if successful, the permission is with
drawn and cannot be re-attempted until next turn. 
Organization Moles : These can subvert and confuse 
enemy assets, striking to damage their cohesion.
 Panopticon Matrix: These facilities weave braked-AI 
intelligence analysts into a web of observation 
capable of detecting the slightest evidence of in
truders on a world. Every rival Stealthed asset on 
the planet must succeed in a Cunning vs. Cunning 
test at the beginning of every turn or lose their 
Stealth. The owner also gains an additional die 
on all Cunning attacks and defenses on that planet.
 Party Machines: Political blocks control particular cities 
or regions… blocks that are firmly in control of 
the faction. Each turn, a Party Machine provides 
1 FacCred to its owning faction.
 Popular Movements: A planet-wide surge of enthusiasm 
for a cause controlled by the faction. This sup
port pervades all levels of government, and the 
government always grants any asset purchase or 
movement requests made by the faction.
 Saboteurs: Minions rained in launching strikes against 
enemy operations. An asset attacked by saboteurs 
cannot apply any Use Asset Ability action until the 
start of the attacking faction’s next turn. This ap
plies whether or not the attack was successful.
 Seditionists: These asset sap a target’s loyalty and will to 
obey. For a cost of 1d4 FacCreds, the Seditionists 
can attach themselves to an enemy asset. Until 
they attach to a different asset or no longer share 
the same planet, the affected asset cannot attack. 
If the asset is destroyed, the Seditionists survive.
 Seductresses: They and their male equivalents subvert 
the leadership of enemy assets. As an action, a Se
ductress can travel to any world within one hex. 
As an attack, a Seductress does no damage, but an 
asset that has been successfully attacked imme
diately reveals any other Stealthed assets of that 
faction on the planet. Only Special Forces units 
can attack a Seductress.
Cunning aSSetS •219 
Asset HP Cost TL Type Attack Counter Note
 Cunning 1
 Smugglers 4 2 4 Starship Cunning vs. Wealth, 1d4 damage None A
 Informers 3 2 0 Special Forces Cunning vs. Cunning, special None A, S
 False Front 2 1 0 Logistics Facility None None S
 Base of Influence * * 0 Special None None S
 Cunning 2
 Lobbyists 4 4 0 Special Forces Cunning vs. Cunning, special None S
 Saboteurs 6 5 0 Special Forces Cunning vs. Cunning, 2d4 damage None S
 Blackmail 4 4 0 Tactic Cunning vs. Cunning, 1d4+1 damage None S
 Seductress 4 4 0 Special Forces Cunning vs. Cunning, special None A, S
 Cunning 3
 Cyberninjas 4 6 4 Special Forces Cunning vs. Cunning, 2d6 damage None
Stealth-2 0 Tactic None None S
 Covert Shipping 4 8 4 Logistics Facility None None A, S
 Cunning 4
 Party Machine 10 8 0 Logistics Facility Cunning vs. Cunning, 2d6 damage 1d6 damage S
 Vanguard Cadres 12 8 3 Military Unit Cunning vs. Cunning, 1d6 damage 1d6 damage
Tripwire Cells 8 12 4 Special Forces None 1d4 damage A, S
 Seditionists 8 12 0 Special Forces None None A
 Cunning 5
 Organization Moles 8 10 0 Tactic Cunning vs. Cunning, 2d6 damage None
 Cracked Comms 6 14 0 Tactic None Special S
 Boltholes 6 12 4 Logistics Facility None 2d6 damage S
 Cunning 6
 Transport Lockdown 10 20 4 Tactic Cunning vs. Cunning, special None S
 Covert Transit Net 15 18 4 Logistics Facility None None A
 Demagogue 10 20 0 Special Forces Cunning vs. Cunning, 2d8 damage 1d8 damage
Cunning 7
 Popular Movement 16 25 4 Tactic Cunning vs. Cunning, 2d6 damage 1d6 damage S
 Book of Secrets 10 20 4 Tactic None 2d8 damage S
 Treachery 5 10 0 Tactic Cunning vs. Cunning, Special None S
 Cunning 8
 Panopticon Matrix 20 30 5 Logistics Facility None 1d6 damage. S
 A “P” special code indicates a need for planetary governmental permission to raise or transport in the asset. “A” means 
that the asset can perform a special action, and “S” indicates that the asset has a special feature or cost.
 Smugglers: Men and women skilled in extracting per
sonnel. For one FacCred, the smugglers asset can 
transport itself and/or any one Special Forces unit 
to a planet up to two hexes away.
 Stealth: Not an asset, per se, but a special quality that 
can be purchased for another Special Forces asset 
on the planet. An asset that has been Stealthed 
cannot be detected or attacked by other factions. 
If the unit normally requires the permission of a 
planetary government to be moved onto a planet, 
that permission may be foregone. An asset loses 
its Stealth if it is used to attack or defend.
 Transport Lockdown: These techniques involve selec
tive pressure on local routing and shipping com
panies. On a successful Cunning vs. Cunning at
tack against a rival faction, the rival faction cannot 
transport assets onto that planet without spending 
1d4 FacCreds and waiting one turn.
 Treachery: Traitors can attack an enemy asset. On a 
successful attack, the Treachery asset is lost, 5 Fac
Creds are gained, and the targeted asset switches 
sides to join the traitor’s faction, even if the faction 
does not otherwise have the attributes necessary.
 Tripwire Cells: These observers are alert to the arriv
al of stealthed units. Whenever a stealthed asset 
lands or is purchased on a planet with tripwire 
cells, the Cells make an immediate Cunning vs. 
Cunning attack against the owning faction. If suc
cessful, the asset loses its stealth.
 Vanguard Cadres: Followers of the movement are in
spired sufficiently to take up arms and fight on 
behalf of their leadership.
220• forCe aSSetS
 forCe asseTs
 Base of Influence: This asset is special, and is required 
for purchasing or upgrading units on a particular 
world. Any damage done to a Base of Influence is 
also done to a faction’s hit points. The cost of a 
Base of Influence equals its maximum hit points, 
which can be any number up to the total maxi
mum hit points of its owning faction. A faction’s 
bases of influence don’t count against their maxi
mum assets. A Base of Influence can only be pur
chased with the Expand Influence action.
 Beachhead Landers: A collection of short-range, 
high-capacity spike drive ships capable of moving 
large numbers of troops. As an action, the asset 
may move any number of assets on the planet, in
cluding itself, to any world within one hex at a cost 
of one FacCred per asset moved.
 Blockade Fleets: A ragtag lot of corsairs, pirates, priva
teers, and other deniable assets. When they suc
cessfully Attack an enemy faction asset, they steal 
1d4 FacCreds from the target faction as well. This 
theft can occur to a faction only once per turn, 
no matter how many blockade fleets attack. As an 
action, this asset may also move itself to a world 
within one hex.
 Capital Fleets: The pride of an empire, this is a collec
tion of massive capital warships without peer in 
most sectors. Capital fleets are expensive to keep 
flying, and cost an additional 2 FacCreds of main
tenance each turn. As an action, they may move 
to any world within three hexes of their current 
location. Planetary government permission is re
quired to raise a capital fleet, but not to move one 
into a system.
 Counterintel Units: These security units specialize in 
code breaking, internal security, and monitoring 
duties. They can crack open enemy plots long be
fore they have time to come to fruition.
 Cunning Traps: This asset covers all the myriad strata
gems of war, from induced landslides to spreading 
local diseases.
 Deep Strike Landers: These advanced transport ships 
are capable of moving an asset long distances. As 
an action, any one non-Starship asset, including 
itself, can be moved between any two worlds 
within three hexes of the deep strike landers, at a 
cost of 2 FacCreds. This movement can be done 
even if the local planetary government objects, al
beit doing so is usually an act of open war.
 Elite Skirmishers: These lightly-equipped troops are 
trained for guerrilla warfare and quick raids.
 Extended Theater: These facilities allow for transport
ing assets long distances. As an action, any one 
non-Starship asset, including itself, can be moved 
between any two worlds within two hexes of the 
extended theater, at a cost of 1 FacCred.
 Gravtank Formations: These tank formations are com
posed of advanced postech gravtank units that are 
capable of covering almost any terrain and crack
ing even the toughest defensive positions.
 Guerrilla Populace: Such assets reflect popular support 
among the locals and a cadre of men and women 
willing to fight as partisans.
 Hardened Personnel: These are the employees and sup
port staff of the faction that have been trained in 
defensive fighting and equipped with supply cach
es and hardened fallback positions.
 Heavy Drop Assets: These craft allow for the transport 
of resources from one world to another. As an 
action, any one non-Starship asset, including this 
one, may be moved to any world within one hex 
for one FacCred.
 Hitmen: Crudely-equipped thugs and assassins with 
minimal training that have been aimed at a rival 
faction’s leadership.
 Integral Protocols: A complex web of braked-AI sup
ported sensors and redundant security checks used 
to defeat attempts to infiltrate an area. They can 
defend only against attacks versus Cunning, but 
they add an additional die to the defender’s roll.
 Militia Units: Groups of lightly-equipped irregular 
troops with rudimentary military training but no 
heavy support.
 Planetary Defenses: Massive mag cannons and gravi
tic braker gun arrays designed to defend against 
starship bombardments and repel unauthorized 
landing. Planetary defenses can only defend 
against attacks by Starship-type assets.
 Postech Infantry: The backbone of most planetary 
armies, these well-trained soldiers are usually 
equipped with mag weaponry and combat field 
uniforms, and have heavy support units attached.
 Pretech Infantry: The cream of the stellar ground 
forces, elite troops kitted out in the best pretech 
weaponry and armor available, with sophisticated 
heavy support weaponry integral to the unit.
 Pretech Logistics: These assets represent caches, smug
glers, or internal research and salvage programs. 
As an action, a pretech logistics asset allows the 
owner to buy one Force asset on that world that 
requires up to tech level 5 to purchase. This asset 
costs half again as many FacCreds as usual, round
ed up. Only one asset can be purchased per turn.
 Psychic Assassins: Combat-trained psychics equipped 
with advanced pretech stealth gear and psitech 
weaponry. Psychic assassins automatically start 
Stealthed when purchased.
 Security Personnel: Standard civilian guards or police
men, usually equipped with nonlethal weaponry 
or personal sidearms.
Eliminating Force Assets
 It’s important to remember that a disabled or dam
aged Force asset hasn’t necessarily been blown to 
pieces on a battlefield. When thinking of ways that 
a conflict might have harmed such an asset, re
member that demoralization, confusion, subver
sion, and simple lack of upkeep might all cripple 
the effectiveness of an asset, or even destroy it as 
an effective force without rebuilding as expensive 
as buying a fresh asset. A navy with spacemanship 
skills so neglected as to constantly run ships into 
each other is just as worthless to its owning faction 
as a fleet of smoking wrecks, and the only damage 
done there was to the organization’s focus.
 forCe aSSetS •221 
Space Marines: Heavily-armored specialist troops 
trained for ship boarding actions and opposed 
landings. As an action, they can move to any world 
within one hex of their current location, whether 
or not the planetary government permits it.
 Strike Fleets: Forces composed of frigate or cruiser-class 
vessels equipped with space-to-ground weaponry 
and sophisticated defenses against light planetary 
weaponry. As an action, they can move to any 
world within one hex of their current location.
 Zealots: Members of the faction so utterly dedicated 
that they are willing to launch suicide attacks or 
hold positions to the death. Zealots take 1d4 dam
age every time they launch a successful attack or 
perform a counterattack.
 Asset HP Cost TL Type Attack Counter Note
 Force 1
 Security Personnel 3 2 0 Military Unit Force vs. Force, 1d3+1 damage 1d4 damage
Hitmen 1 2 0 Special Forces Force vs. Cunning, 1d6 damage None
Militia Unit 4 4 3 Military Unit Force vs. Force, 1d6 damage 1d4+1 damage P
 Base of Influence * * 0 Special None None S
 Force 2
 Heavy Drop Assets 6 4 4 Facility None None A
 Elite Skirmishers 5 5 4 Military Unit Force vs. Force, 2d4 damage 1d4+1 damage P
 Hardened Personnel 4 4 3 Special Forces None 1d4+1 damage
Guerrilla Populace 6 4 0 Military Unit Force vs. Cunning, 1d4+1 damage None
Force 3
 Zealots 4 6 0 Special Forces Force vs Force, 2d6 damage 2d6 damage S
 Cunning Trap 2 5 0 Tactic None 1d6+3 damage
Counterintel Unit 4 6 4 Special Forces Cunning vs Cunning, 1d4+1 damage 1d6 damage
Force 4
 Beachhead Landers 10 10 4 Facility None None A
 Extended Theater 10 10 4 Facility None None A
 Strike Fleet 8 12 4 Starship Force vs. Force, 2d6 damage 1d8 damage A
 Postech Infantry 12 8 4 Military Unit Force vs. Force, 1d8 damage 1d8 damage P
 Force 5
 Blockade Fleet 8 10 4 Starship Force vs. Wealth, 1d6 damage * None S
 Pretech Logistics 6 14 0 Facility None None A
 Psychic Assassins 4 12 4 Special Forces Cunning vs. Cunning, 2d6+2 damage None S
 Force 6
 Pretech Infantry 16 20 5 Military Unit Force vs. Force, 2d8 damage 2d8+2 damage P
 Planetary Defenses 20 18 4 Facility None 2d6+6 damage * S
 Gravtank Formation 14 25 4 Military Unit Force vs. Force, 2d10+4 damage 1d10 damage P
 Force 7
 Deep Strike Landers 10 25 4 Facility None None A
 Integral Protocols 10 20 5 Facility None 2d8+2 damage * S
 Space Marines 16 30 4 Military Unit Force vs. Force 2d8+2 damage 2d8 damage A
 Force 8
 Capital Fleet 30 40 4 Spaceship Force vs. Force, 3d10+4 damage 3d8 damage A, S
 A “P” special code indicates a need for planetary governmental permission to raise or transport in the asset. “A” means 
that the asset can perform a special action, and “S” indicates that the asset has a special feature or cost.
222• Wealth aSSetS
 WealTh asseTs
 Bank Assets: Once per turn, the faction can ignore one 
cost or FacCred loss imposed by another faction. 
This does not require an action. Multiple bank as
sets allow multiple losses to be ignored.
 Base of Influence: These follow the standard rules for 
Bases of Influence.
 Blockade Runners: These starship captains excel at 
transporting goods through unfriendly lines. As 
an action, a blockade runner can transfer itself or 
any one Military Unit or Special Forces to a world 
within three hexes for a cost of two FacCreds. 
They can even move units that would otherwise 
require planetary government permission to enter.
 Commodities Brokers: They substantially lessen the 
cost of large-scale investments by timing mate
rials purchases properly. As an action, the owner 
of a commodities broker can roll 1d8; that many 
FacCreds are subtracted from the cost of their next 
asset purchase, down to a minimum of half nor
mal price, rounded down.
 Franchise: This asset reflects a deniable connection 
with a local licensee for the faction’s goods and 
services. When a Franchise successfully attacks a 
enemy asset, the enemy faction loses one FacCred 
(if available), which is gained by the Franchise’s 
owner. This loss can happen only once a turn, no 
matter how many Franchises attack.
 Freighter Contract: A special link with heavy shipping 
spacers. As an action, the faction may move any 
one non-Force asset, including this one, to any 
world within two hexes at a cost of one FacCred.
 Harvesters: These gather the natural resources of a 
world, whether ore, biologicals, or other unpro
cessed goods. As an action, the Harvesters’ owning 
faction may roll 1d6. On 3+, gain one FacCred.
 Hostile Takeover: This asset can seize control of dam
aged and poorly-controlled assets. If a Hostile 
Takeover does enough damage to destroy an as
set, the target is instead reduced to 1 hit point and 
acquired by the Hostile Takeover’s owning faction.
 Laboratory: The lab allows a world to make hesitant 
progress in tech. The presence of a Laboratory 
allows assets to be purchased on that world as if it 
had Tech Level 4.
 Lawyers: Sophists in immaculate suits or charismatic 
tribal skalds, lawyers have the ability to tie an ene
my up in the coils of their own internal rules, dam
aging assets with confusion and red tape. Lawyers 
cannot attack or counterattack Force assets.
 Local Investments: These give the faction substantial in
fluence over the commerce on a world. Any other 
faction that tries to buy an asset on that planet 
must pay one extra FacCred. This money is not 
given to the investments’ owner, but is lost. This 
penalty is only applied once.
 Marketers: Deployed to confuse enemy factions into 
untimely investments. As an action, the marketers 
may test Cunning vs. Wealth against a rival fac
tion’s asset. If successful, the target faction must 
immediately pay half the asset’s purchase cost, 
rounded down, or have it become disabled and 
useless until this price is paid.
 Medical Center: Salvage and repair damaged assets. 
Once between turns, if a Special Forces or Mili
tary Unit asset on the world is destroyed, the fac
tion may immediately pay half its purchase cost 
to restore it with one hit point. Any Repair Asset 
action taken on that world costs one less FacCred 
for Special Forces and Military Units.
 Mercenaries: Groups of well-equipped, highly-trained 
soldiers willing to serve the highest bidder. Mer
cenaries have a maintenance cost of one FacCred 
per turn. As an action, Mercenaries can move to 
any world within one hex of their current location. 
To purchase or move a Mercenary asset to a planet 
requires government permission.
 Monopoly: An open or tacit stranglehold on certain vital 
businesses or resources on a world. As an action, 
owners of a monopoly may force one other faction 
with unstealthed assets on that world to pay them 
one FacCred. If the target faction can’t pay, they 
lose one asset of their choice on the world.
 Postech Industry: As an action, the owning faction can 
roll 1d6 for a Postech Industry asset. On a 1, one 
FacCred is lost, on a 2-4 one FacCred is earned, 
and a 5-6 returns two FacCreds. If money is lost 
and no resources are available to pay it, the Pos
tech Industry is destroyed.
 Pretech Manufactories: Rare, precious examples of 
functioning pretech industrial facilities, retrofit
ted to work without the benefit of specialized psy
chic disciplines. As an action, the owning faction 
can roll 1d8 for a Pretech Manufactory, and gain 
half that many FacCreds, rounded up.
 Pretech Researchers: A highly versatile team of research 
and design specialists capable of supporting lim
ited pretech… as long as they’re adequately fund
ed. Any world with Pretech Researchers on it is 
treated as tech level 5 for the purpose of buying 
Cunning and Wealth assets. Pretech researchers 
have a maintenance cost of 1 FacCred per turn.
 R&D Departments: These allow the smooth extension 
of wealth-creation and industrial principles to the 
farthest reaches of the faction’s operations. A fac
tion with an R&D department may treat all plan
ets as having tech level 4 for purposes of buying 
Wealth assets.
 Scavenger Fleets: These rag-tag armadas bring enor
mous technical and mercantile resources to their 
patrons, along with a facility with heavy guns. As 
Wealth aSSetS •223 
Asset HP Cost TL Type Attack Counter Note
 Wealth 1
 Franchise 3 2 2 Facility Wealth vs. Wealth, 1d4 damage 1d4-1 damage S
 Harvesters 4 2 0 Facility None 1d4 A
 Local Investments 2 1 2 Facility Wealth vs. Wealth, 1d4-1 damage None S
 Base of Influence * * 0 Special None None S
 Wealth 2
 Freighter Contract 4 5 4 Starship Wealth vs. Wealth, 1d4 damage None A
 Lawyers 4 6 0 Special Forces Cunning vs. Wealth, 2d4 damage 1d6 damage S
 Union Toughs 6 4 0 Military Unit Wealth vs. Force, 1d4+1 damage 1d4 damage
 Surveyors 4 4 4 Special Forces None 1d4 damage A, S
 Wealth 3
 Postech Industry 4 8 4 Facility None 1d4 damage A
 Laboratory 4 6 0 Facility None None S
 Mercenaries 6 8 4 Military Unit Wealth vs. Force, 2d4+2 damage 1d6 damage A, S, P
 Wealth 4
 Shipping Combine 10 10 4 Facility None 1d6 damage A
 Monopoly 12 8 3 Facility Wealth vs. Wealth, 1d6 damage 1d6 damage S
 Medical Center 8 12 4 Facility None None S
 Bank 8 12 3 Facility None None S
 Wealth 5
 Marketers 8 10 0 Tactic Cunning vs. Wealth, 1d6 damage None A
 Pretech Researchers 6 14 4 Special Forces None None S
 Blockade Runners 6 12 4 Starship None 2d4 damage A
 Wealth 6
 Venture Capital 10 15 4 Facility Wealth vs. Wealth, 2d6 1d6 damage A
 R&D Department 15 18 4 Facility None None S
 Commodities Broker 10 20 0 Special Forces Wealth vs. Wealth, 2d8 damage 1d8 damage A
 Wealth 7
 Pretech Manufactory 16 25 5 Facility None None S
 Hostile Takeover 10 20 4 Tactic Wealth vs. Wealth, 2d10 damage 2d8 damage S
 Transit Web 5 15 5 Facility Cunning vs. Cunning, 1d12 damage None S
 Wealth 8
 Scavenger Fleet 20 30 5 Starship Wealth vs. Wealth, 2d10+4 damage 2d10 damage.
 A “P” special code indicates a need for planetary governmental permission to raise or transport in the asset. “A” means 
that the asset can perform a special action, and “S” indicates that the asset has a special feature or cost.
 an action, a Scavenger Fleet can be moved to any 
world within three hexes. Scavenger Fleets cost 2 
FacCreds a turn in maintenance.
 Shipping Combine: Transport large amounts of equip
ment and personnel between worlds. As an action, 
the combine may move any number of non-Force 
assets, including itself, to any world within two 
hexes at a cost of one FacCred per asset.
 Surveyors: Explore potential resource and investment 
options on worlds. The presence of a Surveyor 
crew allows one additional die to be rolled on 
Expand Influence actions. As an action, a surveyor 
crew can be moved to any world within two hexes.
 Transit Web: These facilities allow almost effortless re
location of all assets. For one FacCred, any num
ber of non-starship Cunning or Wealth assets may 
be moved between any two worlds within three 
hexes of the Transit Web. This may be done freely 
on the owner’s turn so long as the fee can be paid, 
and using the ability doesn’t require an action.
 Union Toughs: These bruisers don’t much like scabs and 
management, and they’re willing to take the fac
tion’s word on which people are which. They’re 
lightly armed and poorly trained, but they can in
filtrate to perform sabotage.
 Venture Capital: This asset grows resources out of 
seemingly nowhere, harvesting the best of entre
preneurship for the faction’s benefit. As an action, 
venture capital can be tapped. 1d8 is rolled; on a 1, 
the asset is destroyed, while on a 2-3 one FacCred 
is gained, 4-7 yields two FacCreds and 8 grants 
three FacCreds.
224• faCtion tagS
 faCTIon Tags
 Most factions have some unique quality about them, 
some trait that distinguishes them from other factions 
of similar resources. Whether a particularly fanatical 
band of ideological crusaders or an ancient order of 
pacifistic scientists, faction tags allow a GM to give a 
group a few special tricks of their own.
 A faction should generally be given one tag, or two 
at the most for particularly versatile organizations. The 
exception is the Planetary Government tag, which can 
be acquired– and lost– multiple times to reflect the 
faction’s seizure of new worlds. Factions tags do not 
normally change without some drastic and organiza
tion-shaping event.
 Colonists
 This faction is a fresh colony on an otherwise largely 
untouched planet. It is this brave band of pioneers that 
will tame the world’s wild forces and bring forth a bet
ter life for those who come after.
 Effect: This faction has all the benefits of the Planetary 
Government tag for its homeworld, as no other 
government exists on a fresh colony. The faction’s 
homeworld is also treated as if it had at least tech 
level 4. Colonies with fewer than 100,000 citi
zens lack the necessary industrial infrastructure 
to build Spaceship-type assets.
 Deep Rooted
 This faction has been part of a world’s life for time out 
of mind. Most natives can hardly imagine the world 
without this faction’s presence, and the traditional pre
rogatives and dignities of the group are instinctively 
respected.
 Effect: This faction can roll one additional d10 when 
defending against attacks on assets on their home
world. If the faction ever changes homeworlds, 
this tag is lost.
 Eugenics Cult
 The forbidden maltech secrets of advanced human ge
netic manipulation are known to this faction, and they 
use them with gusto. Slave-engineered humanoids and 
“deathless” leadership are just two of the more common 
alterations these unstable scientists undertake.
 Effect: Eugenics Cultists can buy the Gengineered 
Slaves asset; it’s an asset requiring Force 1 with 
the statistics of 6 HP, 2 FacCred cost, tech level 4 
required, with an Attack of Force vs. Force/1d6 
damage and a Counterattack of 1d4 damage. Once 
per turn, the Eugenics Cult can roll an extra d10 
on an attack or defense by a Gengineered Slaves 
asset, regardless of the stat being used. Gengi
neered Slaves can count as either a Military Unit 
or Special Forces, determined when the cult first 
creates a specific asset.
 Exchange Consulate
 This faction is either led through an Exchange Con
sulate or has close ties with that pacifistic society of 
bankers and diplomats. The sophisticated economic 
services they provide strengthen the faction.
 Effect: When the faction successfully completes a 
“Peaceable Kingdom” Goal, they may roll 1d6; on 
a 4+, they gain a bonus experience point. Once 
per turn, the faction may roll an extra d10 when 
defending against a Wealth attack.
 Fanatical
 The members of this faction just don’t know when to 
quit. No matter how overmatched, the members will 
keep fighting to the bitter end- and occasionally past it.
 Effect: The faction always rerolls any dice that come up 
as 1. This zealousness leaves them open at times, 
however; they always lose ties during attacks.
 Imperialists
 This faction nurses wild dreams of controlling the sec
tor, whether out of an impulse to bring their local cul
ture and technology to less fortunate worlds or simple 
lust for dominion. They excel at defeating planetary 
defenses and standing armies.
 Effect: This faction may roll an extra d10 for attacks 
made as part of a Seize Planet action.
 Machiavellian
 This faction’s meat and drink is intrigue, its members 
delighting in every opportunity to scheme. It may be 
a secret cabal of hidden masters or the decadent court 
of a fallen stellar empire, but its membership has for
gotten more of treachery than most others ever learn.
 Effect: Once per turn, this faction can roll an additional 
d10 when making a Cunning attack.
 Mercenary Group
 The faction sells its services to the highest bidder, and 
is an extremely mobile organization. Vast amounts of 
men and material can be moved interstellar distances 
in just a few months.
 Effect: All faction assets gain the following special abil
ity: As an action, the asset may move itself to any 
world within one hex.
 Perimeter Agency
 This faction is or is closely tied to an Agency of the 
enigmatic Perimeter organization. Originally orga
nized by the Terran Mandate to detect and contain 
maltech outbreaks until Mandate fleet resources could 
be dispatched, the Perimeter retains numerous ancient 
override codes for pretech security protocols.
 Effect: Once per turn, the faction may roll an addi
tional d10 when making an attack against an asset 
faCtion tagS •225 
that requires tech level 5 to purchase. The faction 
may roll an extra die when making a test to detect 
Stealthed assets.
 Pirates
 This faction is a scourge of the spacelanes, driving up 
the cost of shipping and terrorizing merchant captains 
without pity. They steal and refit ships with vicious 
ingenuity, cobbling together space armadas out of the 
leavings of their prey.
 Effect: Any movement of an asset onto a world that has 
a Base of Influence for this faction costs one extra 
FacCred, paid to this faction.
 Planetary Government
 This faction is the legitimate government of a planet. 
Rebel groups and rival factions may have assets on the 
planet, but control over the instruments of the state 
is firmly in this faction’s hands. The faction may rule 
openly, or it may simply have an inexorable grasp on 
the existing authorities.
 Effect: The faction’s permission is required to buy or 
import those assets marked as needing govern
ment permission. This tag can be acquired multi
ple times, once for each planet the faction controls.
 Plutocratic
 This faction prizes wealth, and its membership strives 
constantly to expand and maintain personal fortunes. 
Perhaps it is a ruling council of oligarchs or a star-span
ning trade cartel.
 Effect: Once per turn, this faction can roll an additional 
d10 when making a Wealth attack.
 Preceptor Archive
 This faction is or has close ties to a Preceptor Archive 
a place of learning operated by the learned Preceptors 
of the Great Archive. These Archives are peaceful in
stitutions dedicated to the spread of practical knowl
edge and useful engineering to the wider cosmos. Their 
large numbers of educated personnel make advanced 
equipment more practical for deployment.
 Effect: Purchasing an asset that requires tech level 4 or 
more costs one fewer FacCred than normal. The 
Preceptor Archive may also take the special action 
“Teach Planetary Population”, costing 2 FacCreds 
and allowing them to roll 1d12 for one world. On 
a 12, the world’s tech level permanently becomes 
4 for the purposes and purchases of this faction.
 Psychic Academy
 Most significant factions are capable of employing psy
chics, but this faction can actually train their own. They 
excel at precise and focused application of the psionic 
disciplines, and can get far more out of their available 
psychic resources than other factions.
 Effect: This faction can provide psionic mentor train
ing to qualified psychics. Once per turn, this fac
tion can also force a rival faction to reroll any one 
d10, whether or not they’re involved in the roll.
 Savage
 Whether a proud tribe of neoprimitives struggling 
against the material limits of their world or a pack of 
degenerate tomb world cannibals, this faction is accus
tomed to surviving without the benefits of advanced 
technology and maximizing local resources.
 Effect: Once per turn, this faction can roll an extra die 
when defending with an asset that requires tech 
level 0 to purchase.
 Scavengers
 This faction might live within the wreckage of a tomb 
world, salvage the castoffs of some decadent plea
sure-world or ply the ruins of an orbital scrapyard. 
Whatever their territory, this faction knows how to 
find worth amid seemingly useless trash.
 Effect: Whenever the faction destroys an asset or has 
one of their assets destroyed, they gain 1 FacCred.
 Secretive
 This faction is marked by elaborate protocols of secre
cy and misdirection. It may be split up into numerous 
semi-autonomous cells, or consist largely of trained es
pionage professionals. Finding the assets of such a fac
tion can often be more difficult than destroying them.
 Effect: All assets purchased by this faction automatical
ly begin Stealthed. See the list of Cunning assets 
for details on Stealth.
 Technical Expertise
 The faction is staffed by large numbers of expert en
gineers and scientists. They can turn even the most 
unpromising labor pool into superb technicians.
 Effect: This faction treats all planets on which they 
have a Base of Influence as if they were at least 
tech level 4. They can build Starship-type assets 
on any world with at least ten thousand occupants.
 Theocratic
 The faction is fueled by the fierce certainty that God 
is with them- and with no one else. The tight and 
occasionally irrational obedience that pervades the 
organization makes it difficult to infiltrate or subvert 
effectively.
 Effect: Once per turn, this faction can roll an extra d10 
when defending against a Cunning attack.
 Warlike
 There are factions with a military orientation, and then 
there are factions that just really love killing things. 
Whether or not this faction has developed sophisticat
ed military resources and techniques, the membership 
is zealous in battle and has a positive taste for fighting.
 Effect: Once per turn, this faction can roll an additional 
d10 when making a Force attack.
226• faCtionS in your CamPaign
 faCTIons In your CamPaIgn
 To create a faction, first decide on the scale of the orga
nization. Many factions are restricted to a single world, 
and even the most impressive sector empire rarely 
exerts direct control over more than a dozen worlds. 
Place the faction’s homeworld and locate any Bases of 
Influence it might have on other worlds. A few words 
beside each Base describing the form it takes can be 
handy in later planning out adventures with the faction.
 Next, prioritize the faction’s attributes, deciding 
the order in which they focus on Force, Cunning, and 
Wealth. Minor factions should have a 4 in their most 
important attribute, established planetary govern
ments should have a 6, and regional hegemons should 
have an 8. Their second-most important attribute is 
one less than their primary, and their tertiary attribute 
is three less. You can calculate the faction’s hit points 
from that, but normally minor powers will have 15 HP, 
major powers will have 29 HP, and sector hegemons 
will have 49 HP. Their off-world Bases of Influence 
normally have a maximum HP equal to half that.
 Give minor powers one asset in their primary at
tribute and one asset in a different attribute. Give major 
powers two assets in their primary attribute, and two 
assets in different attributes, and give regional hege
mons four assets in their primary and four in others. 
Place these assets on the worlds occupied by the faction.
 Select an appropriate faction tag for the organiza
tion, one fitting their special focus and origins. If the 
faction has direct governmental control over one or 
more worlds, add Planetary Government tags to them.
 Finally, select a Goal for the faction. For your ini
tial three or four sector factions, try to pick goals that 
will put them in conflict with each other. If the factions 
you make are content to hide from the world and get 
along in peace and quiet, they’re unlikely to be terribly 
useful as patrons or enemies for the PC group, unless 
you intend to enlist the PCs as defenders of some be
leaguered group of innocents.
eXamPle faCTIons
 examPle faCtionS •227 
A GM doesn’t always have time to sort out the details 
of every faction that might be needed. A group might 
decide to attack the planetary government of a world 
that wasn’t important or interesting enough to merit 
the effort to define its governmental faction during 
sector creation, for example. The following sample 
factions can be pulled and used for such places as nec
essary. Where appropriate, you can add the Planetary 
Government tag for legitimate world governments.
 Colony World
 Thinly-populated worlds with limited infrastructure 
tend to have weak colonial governments concerned 
chiefly with issues of basic survival rather than expan
sion or intrigue.
 Attributes: Force 2, Cunning 1, Wealth 1
 Hit Points: 8
 Assets: Security Personnel/Force 1
 Tags: Colonists
 Lost World
 Primitive and barbaric by the standards of the space go
ing worlds, a lost world lacks the technical resources of 
their neighbors, but may well have substantial advan
tages in population and cultural cohesion depending on 
the world's habitability.
 Attributes: Force 2, Cunning 1, Wealth 1
 Hit Points: 8
 Assets: Militia Unit/Force 1
 Tags: Savage
 Trade Guild
 A modest merchant organization focused on controlling 
local commerce and building economic influence within 
their home system.
 Attributes: Wealth 2, Force 1, Cunning 1
 Hit Points: 8
 Assets: Harvesters/Wealth 1
 Tags: Plutocratic
 Secret Society
 A clandestine organization that operates in the shadows, 
using infiltration and manipulation rather than direct 
force to achieve its goals.
 Attributes: Cunning 2, Force 1, Wealth 1
 Hit Points: 8
 Assets: Informers/Cunning 1
 Tags: Secretive
 Military Junta
 A faction built around martial strength and discipline, 
whether a planetary militia, mercenary company, or 
warrior culture.
 Attributes: Force 2, Wealth 1, Cunning 1
 Hit Points: 8
 Assets: Hitmen/Force 1
 Tags: Warlike
 Information Brokers
 An intelligence-focused group specializing in espionage, 
data collection, and the buying and selling of secrets.
 Attributes: Cunning 2, Wealth 1, Force 1
 Hit Points: 8
 Assets: Informers/Cunning 1
 Tags: Machiavellian
 Salvage Collective
 A faction that has built its foundation on reclaiming and 
repurposing the debris of fallen civilizations and failed 
ventures.
 Attributes: Wealth 2, Cunning 1, Force 1
 Hit Points: 8
 Assets: Harvesters/Wealth 1
 Tags: Scavengers
 Underground Movement
 A grassroots resistance or revolutionary cell working to 
undermine established powers through stealth and sub
version.
 Attributes: Cunning 2, Force 1, Wealth 1
 Hit Points: 8
 Assets: Informers/Cunning 1
 Tags: Secretive
228• examPle of faCtion Play
 an eXamPle of faCTIon Play
 The GM has just finished brewing up her initial sector. 
She has a rough sketch of the worlds, she’s fleshed out 
the planet where the initial play session will occur, and 
she’s ready to run the game. She thinks it’d be nice to 
have some background activity going on, so she plans 
to create three factions to decorate her world.
 She picks out three groups that are likely to be 
significant players in this corner of her sector: the harsh 
planetary government of Typhon, the initial starting 
point for the game, the Rathskeller Combine, a mul
tistellar megacorp based off the world of Danube in 
the neighboring solar system, and the Way of Voth, a 
pretech-worshiping cult with a hidden base on Singu
larity, a gas giant moon in a system neighboring both.
 These aren’t the only possible factions in the sys
tem, of course, but they’re the ones most likely to be 
pertinent to PC interests. If the PCs move on, she might 
retire some of these factions to bring in new ones. She 
knows she shouldn’t have more than a half-dozen fac
tions active at once unless she’s ready to do a lot of 
tracking during each faction turn.
 She knows the Typhon government is a fairly 
powerful faction, having effective control of its home 
planet save for some plucky rebels against its autocratic 
monarchy. Force is its strongest tool, so she gives it a 
rating of 6 in that, followed by Wealth of 5 and Cun
ning of 3. Its maximum hit points are 29. As a major 
power, it has two Force assets and two more assets of 
any kind. Typhon would love to have Pretech Infantry 
and has the Force score to support it, but its tech level 
is 4, too low for such advanced troops. It settles for a 
Strike Fleet and some Postech Infantry. Aside from that, 
it has a government Monopoly on spike drive com
ponents and a Postech Industry that helps make them. 
It also has a Base of Influence on its home world of 
Typhon that automatically has 29 hit points, the same 
as the faction itself. Finally, it has the faction tag of 
Planetary Government, because it’s the legitimate ruler 
of Typhon.
 For the Rathskeller Combine, the GM decides that 
it’s about as powerful as the Typhon government due 
to its far-flung mercantile connections. On reflection, 
she thinks its main money comes from its control of 
the ship-building industry outside the Typhon system, 
which makes it an economic competitor with the state
run Typhon shipyards. She gives it a Wealth rating of 
6, Force of 5, and Cunning of 3, with a maximum HP 
of 29. Since it’s starship-centric, she gives it Shipping 
Combine and Blockade Runner assets for Wealth, and 
other assets of Elite Skirmishers and Saboteurs. The 
Plutocratic tag fits its mercantile origins.
 For the final faction, the GM decides to make 
them a relatively weak group, one that tries to use its 
limited supplies of pretech artifacts to manipulate “less 
4, a Wealth of 3, and a Force of 1. Its maximum hit 
points are 15. It gets only two assets as a minor power, 
so goes with Cyberninjas and Covert Shipping to get 
those ninjas where they need to go. The GM mulls over 
the faction tags, but none seem to be quite right. She 
decides to give it her own tag of “Pretech Stores”, let
ting it treat Singularity as a tech level 5 world for pur
poses of buying high-tech assets there. While there’s no 
other meaningful authority on the gas giant moon, the 
GM doesn’t think it’s proper to give them the Planetary 
Government tag because there really isn’t anything else 
on Singularity except the Vothite base. They don’t have 
the implicit military power to prevent hostile military 
assets from landing on the world, so they don’t really 
fit the mold of the Planetary Government tag.
 The last step in creating the factions is to give each 
of them an initial goal. She decides that the Rathskeller 
Combine is really interested in breaking into Typhon’s 
closed market. She gives it the Expand Influence goal, 
which rewards it when it can found a Base of Influence 
on another planet. Typhon is a violent, expansionistic 
power that goes in for Blood the Enemy, so it seeks to 
inflict hit point damage on rival assets equal to the sum 
of its attributes, or 14 points. The Vothites know they 
can’t survive a direct confrontation with either import
ant power, so they want to get ready to make a move 
when they’re stronger; they choose Peaceable Kingdom, 
needing to spend four consecutive turns without taking 
an Attack action.
 With this established, the GM is ready to run the 
first faction turn.
 Turn One
 The GM randomly selects the Rathskeller Combine to 
go first, followed by Typhon, and then the Vothites.
 First, the Combine earns its income for the turn; 
half its Wealth plus a quarter of its total Force and Cun
ning, rounded down. That means 5 FacCreds.
 Next, it pays maintenance. It has no assets that 
require maintenance and hasn’t got more assets of any 
one type than its corresponding attribute, so it has no 
maintenance cost. If it were to accumulate four Cun
ning assets, however, while only having a Cunning of 
3, it would have to pay one FacCred for each over the 
limit. Bases of Influence don’t count for this purpose.
 Now the Combine has to decide what action to 
take. It knows that Typhon is itching for a fight. The 
Combine is nervous about their rival’s Strike Fleet, 
but that seems to be the only force that immediately 
threatens them. The Postech Infantry that Typhon has 
doesn’t have any practical way to cross into Danubian 
space unless Typhon buys some sort of transport asset. 
Right now there seems no way for the Typhonians 
to do that, so the Combine decides to go for a long 
developed” societies. She gives it a Cunning score of 
economic game, taking the Buy Asset action to spend 2 
examPle of faCtion Play •229 
FacCreds on Harvesters. The GM decides that this rep
resents a new flotilla of asteroid mining tugs. A faction 
can buy only one asset per turn and can take only one 
action, so the Combine’s turn is over.
 Typhon isn’t wasting any time. It gets its FacCred 
income for the turn of 4 FacCreds and uses its action to 
Use Asset Ability to let its Strike Fleet enter the Danube 
system. Some assets require governmental permission 
to move them into a system with an existing govern
ment, but not Strike Fleets. They tend to make their 
own permission. Typhon would like to start attacking 
Combine assets, but it can only take one action per turn, 
so it will have to wait until the next one to open fire.
 The Vothites are keeping their head down, accru
ing their 2 FacCreds. As poor as they are, they need 
to do something about it, so they invest in a Buy As
set action to get a Harvester. The GM decides that it 
represents scavenger teams dispatched to loot vital 
resources from the dangerous pretech caches hidden 
on Singularity.
 As the final step, the GM translates these faction 
actions into newsfeed stories to share with the PCs. 
She scribbles up short news blasts about “Typhon First 
Fleet Dispatched to Suppress Piracy in the Danube Sys
tem”, “Rathskeller Combine Commissions New Wing 
of Asteroid Miners”, and “Unusual Ship Traffic In Sin
gularity System”. These stories may not have the whole 
truth about affairs, but they’re what the PCs would find 
out from the local news organizations.
 Turn Two
 The PCs completed their first adventure and are busy 
swanning around in the Danube system. Nothing 
they’ve done directly impinges on the local factions, 
so the GM simply runs the next faction turn after the 
session is over. Random rolls give Voth the first action, 
then Typhon, and then the Combine.
 Voth gets another 2 FacCreds and dutifully uses 
Buy Asset to get another Harvester, scaling up their sal
vage efforts. This makes two Wealth assets that Voth 
has; it can get one more Wealth asset before it starts to 
have to pay maintenance on any additional ones. They 
would’ve liked to have used Use An Asset to see if their 
existing Harvester made them any money, but they 
can’t take two different actions during the same turn, 
so they must wait for now.
 Typhon now collects its 4 FacCreds, for a total of 
8, and uses the Attack action. If it had multiple assets in 
position, it could attack with all of them; as it stands, 
only the Strike Fleet is in the same location as a rival 
power. It aims at the Base of Influence, but the Com
bine gets to decide which asset the Strike Fleet engages. 
It chooses to defend with its Blockade Runners. The 
Strike Fleet’s Attack is Force versus Force, so Typhon 
rolls 1d10 and adds its Force rating for a score of 11. 
Against this, the Combine rolls 1d10 and adds its own 
Force rating for a score of 12. The Strike Fleet’s attack 
has failed, and it takes the Counterattack damage of the 
Blockade Runners, for 2d4 damage, for 7 points. The 
Strike Fleet is now down to 1 hit point.
 The Rathskeller Combine now senses an opportu
nity. They collect their income of 5 FacCreds for a total 
of 8 and take an Attack action of their own, ordering 
the Saboteurs to press the attack. The Strike Fleet is the 
only viable target in the sector, so Typhon is forced to 
defend with it. The Saboteurs’ attack is Cunning versus 
Cunning. The Combine rolls an 8, a tepid result, while 
the Strike Fleet gets lucky and rolls a 9. The Saboteurs 
are forced to take the Strike Fleet’s counterattack dam
age of 1d8, and roll a 6; they are wiped out. Stung, the 
Combine throws the Elite Skirmishers into the fray, 
the only other asset they have that even has an attack. 
They roll a Force vs. Force attack, Typhon rolls badly, 
and the Strike Fleet is destroyed.
 The GM then writes up the news blasts for the 
session, describing how “pirate” boarding parties de
stroyed the Typhonian strike fleet by taking advantage 
of security breaches caused by recently-discovered sab
oteurs. She decides that both Danube and Typhon want 
to avoid outright war, and that Danube’s planetary gov
ernment won’t get involved so long as Typhon is only 
cutting down Combine holdings.
 Turn Three
 As it turns out, the PCs took notice of that news item 
about Singularity’s ship activity and decided to inves
tigate. In the course of their adventure they killed a 
Vothite salvage crew and snatched away a precious haul 
of pretech artifacts that the crew had been recovering. 
The GM decides that this costs the Vothites one of their 
two Harvester assets. There is no die roll or faction ac
tion related to this; the PCs did it, so it simply happens. 
They also left plenty of evidence, so the GM makes a 
note to have a Vothite cyberninja come after them and 
their stolen artifacts. Such small-scale actions related to 
PC adventures don’t require a full faction action, so the 
Vothites don’t need to use an Attack action to go after 
the troublesome PCs.
 The Vothites go first this round and are not 
amused. They collect their 2 FacCreds and Use An 
Ability to see if their remaining Harvester makes them 
any money; they roll a 4 on its ability and gain an extra 
FacCred, for a total of 3 in its coffers this turn.
 Typhon goes next, collecting 4 FacCreds for a total 
of 12. It’s licking its wounds, but at least it managed to 
inflict 6 of the necessary 14 points of damage on a foe 
to succeed at its Blood the Enemy goal. It uses Buy Asset 
to buy a new Strike Fleet, reconstituting it from the 
survivors and spending all 12 FacCreds on it.
 The Combine goes last, and is at a crossroads. Their 
income this turn gives them 13 FacCreds and they’ve 
successfully destroyed a Typhionian Strike Fleet, but 
it cost them their Saboteurs, and they have only one 
asset left that can even attack at all. What should they 
do to address the Typhonian menace? Maybe some PC 
mercenaries might tip the scales for them…

