SECTOR CREATION
 Every self-respecting sci-fi game needs to be able to 
provide a stock of interesting alien worlds. Even if a 
campaign should happen to take place largely on a sin
gle world, the backdrop of foreign spheres adds context 
and additional adventure hooks to the game.
 Most campaigns are going to involve substantial 
world-hopping, however, and the GM needs to be 
ready to deal with this. This chapter will give you the 
tools you need to fashion a sector of the void that will 
be worth the reckless daring of a band of heroic PCs.
 The Nature of Sectors
 In the former days of the Mandate, human space was 
generally divided into administrative sectors, each one 
the particular responsibility of some fragment of the 
ancient Terran bureaucracy. By the end of the Second 
Wave, these responsibilities were almost entirely ficti
tious, as the Mandate Fleet lacked the manpower nec
essary to exert Old Earth’s will on its scattered progeny. 
Even so, the centuries-old grind of bureaucratic pro
cedure still dutifully labeled each fragment of distant 
space with its own identity.
 Sectors were established on the basis of metadi
mensional proximity rather than simple spatial pro
pinquity. Individual stars in a sector might be spread 
out over dozens of light years, but the metadimensional 
currents between them were strong enough to allow 
quick travel among them, when a physically-neighbor
ing star might require impossibly lengthy drills through 
metadimensional space to reach it.
 Settlers in these far sectors often adopted Mandate 
sector nomenclature simply out of convenience. The 
sectors that Fleet scout ships and far trader adventurers 
mapped out were composed of stars “close” enough to 
allow for trade with their ramshackle spike drives and 
colonial cargo haulers, and their density allowed for 
trade and assistance between nearby friendly worlds. 
Those with a more isolationist bent sought out sectors 
with far-scattered stars that couldn’t be bridged by the 
less sophisticated drives that most colonists used.
 Most sectors had limited contact with other re
gions of space. While “bordering” stars could some
times allow drills into a neighboring sector, large 
patches of unfriendly metadimensional space often 
strictly limited the available paths into or out of a sector. 
Some sectors were entirely inaccessible by anything but 
top-grade Mandate spike drives capable of leaping the 
broad gaps around them, and some entire regions were 
isolated by a few narrow bridgepoints into the cluster.
 As a consequence, modern human space varies 
wildly in every respect. Some regions have sophisticat
ed interstellar trade and wide-reaching empires, while 
others are struggling to rise from primitive barbarism. 
A lost bridgepoint can separate whole empires, leaving 
both entirely ignorant of each other… for the moment.
 Sectors In Your Game
 From a campaign perspective, sectors limit the scope 
of material you need to take into account in your game. 
While it’s perfectly possible to run a game with multi
ple interconnected sectors, the sheer bulk of worlds can 
make that a painful prospect for most GMs. A single 
sector of 21-30 worlds is more than enough for most 
parties to explore.
 Sectors and interstellar regions also provide you 
with a convenient explanation for running dramati
cally different campaigns. Players who want to run a 
space-operatic game set in a region of easy spaceflight 
and consistent high-tech marvels can do so, while a 
group that wants a harder sci-fi experience in a sector 
without psionic powers or exotic energy weapons can 
have their play as well. The vast sweep of human space 
has room for your preferred tropes without having to 
fight the setting. No matter what you want to play, 
there’s some chunk of human space that has it.
 A sector provides the basic background for the ad
ventures the PCs encounter, as every world needs to 
have some kind of adventure-worthy content if it’s to 
justify its drain on a GM’s creativity and focus. Creat
ing worlds purely for pleasure or aesthetic satisfaction 
is entirely valid, but as a working GM, you also need 
material you can play. This chapter will show you how 
to maximize the return on your effort, and get the most 
playable content out of the least amount of work.
 This is a necessity in any system, but it is especial
ly important if you’re going to be running a sandbox 
game. A GM who tries to flesh out every nook and 
cranny of the dozens of worlds they create will be rap
idly exhausted by the effort, and might still lack the 
content they need to actually run a game during the 
next session of play. A GM needs to have a plan and 
an appropriate set of tools if they are to deal with the 
challenge in a comfortable, straightforward way.
 When building a sector, you can generally assume 
that it’s isolated from any neighboring regions. There 
might be a few connections along the “borders” of the 
sector, still-remembered spike drive paths into the next 
collection of worlds, but you’ve got enough to build if 
you just focus on a single sector at a time.
 You are advised to carefully read the following 
pages and take heed of the advice on how much con
tent you should create for each world. A GM would 
not be a GM if they did not take pleasure in creating 
wondrous new worlds to explore, but the most enthu
siastic demiurge still has a limited amount of creative 
energy, time, and focus to spend on a campaign. If you 
follow the steps in the following pages, you’ll be able to 
ensure a playable amount of gaming content for your 
next session before you start spending your effort on 
more decorative elements of your creation.
130• SeCtor Creation
 CreaTIng a sTellar seCTor
 Once you’ve decided to forge your own piece of the 
infinite void, you’ll want to grab a sheet of large-hex 
hex paper from one of the many templates available on
line. First you’ll make a stellar map of the sector on this 
sheet, and then you’ll individually flesh out the worlds 
to whatever degree of fineness your needs require.
 One crucial thing to remember at this stage of 
creation is that you do not have to create everything. You 
don’t need to answer every question about the sector or 
have every world in adventure-ready condition. Right 
now you’re just laying down broad strokes and rough 
colors to the sector, and when it comes time to do detail 
work you’ll save it for the worlds that matter most to 
your immediate needs.
 Every GM has a limited supply of time, energy, 
and creative inspiration. If you try to fabricate an en
tire complete sector in one go, with interesting planets 
and meaningful interstellar intrigue and easy adventure 
hooks all over the place, you’re likely to exhaust your
self before you even get to play.
 Instead, you should follow a simple guiding prin
ciple whenever building anything for your campaign, 
whether a stellar sector or an adventure outline.
 Am I having fun? If you’re enjoying yourself, then 
you can keep building. We follow this hobby because 
it’s fun, and if you’re enjoying the process then you 
should let yourself have your indulgence.
 Am I going to need this for the next session? If what 
you’re creating is something you know you’re going to 
need for the next game session, then you should finish 
it. Don’t let this feeling of obligation extend to every 
detail, however; it can be easy to imagine situations 
where you’ll need to elaborate some NPC or organiza
tion or location, but if you respond to every such pos
sibility you’ll never get away from the drawing board.
 If you’re not having fun and you don’t need it for 
your next game session, stop it. You’re going to exhaust 
yourself on minutiae and trivia and not have the energy 
to do the parts you really do need, or the vigor needed 
to actually run this for the group.
 With that principle kept firmly in mind, it’s time 
to start building the sector.
 Place the Stars
 The standard sector map is a grid of hexagons 8 wide by 
10 high, with hex templates easily acquired from the net. 
Roll 1d10 and add 20 to determine the total number of 
stars in the sector, or simply choose a number that suits.
 For the first twenty or so stars, roll 1d8 and 1d10 
together to determine the column and row in which 
to place the star. If the hex is already occupied, place it 
adjacent in the direction of the nearest edge.
 Some columns have “half-hexes” in them, and only 
9 full hexes; if you roll a 10 for such a column, either 
reroll or place it at the bottom-most full hex.
 Once you’ve placed the randomly-positioned 
stars, add the remainder to connect any stellar clumps 
or groupings. Remember that standard postech spike 
drives can’t reach more than 3 hexes, so any cluster that 
can’t be reached with such a drill will be inaccessible to 
anything but pretech-grade drives.
 The stellar map you’ve just created is an abstrac
tion, one reflecting the eddies and currents of meta
dimensional space. The individual stars might look 
adjacent on the map, but some may be vast distances 
apart. If you’d prefer to use more realistic star maps, 
you can grab some three-dimensional star map off the 
web and convert a convenient number of light years 
into a single “hex” of distance for spike drive purposes.
 Lay Down the Primary Worlds
 With the stars placed, it’s time to place the primary 
inhabited worlds. While it’s possible to declare that 
a star is orbited only by barren rocks, such stars are 
more difficult to make useful as places of adventure 
and gameable fun.
 Right now, assume that each inhabited system has 
a single primary world. The original colonists would 
have naturally sought out the best, most habitable 
world for their founding. As a consequence, however 
nasty the primary world is, the others in the system 
are probably even worse. If you wish to add additional 
planets to the system later, you can do so, but for now 
you’ll want to focus on just one.
 Start by rolling two world tags for each planet. 
World tags are simple tropes that reflect the most im
portant qualities about the world, or at least those qual
ities most important to adventurers. A list of a hundred 
potential world tags starts on page 132.
 It’s most convenient to roll world tags for each 
planet before moving on to the other elements of the 
world, so you spend less time flipping back and forth 
between the sections. Don’t worry about making the 
tags make sense yet. Just note them down and go on.
 Next, roll the atmospheres for each world. In this 
and the following steps, you can either reroll results 
that make no sense in light of the world tags you’ve 
generated, or simply pick a result that fits. If you’re 
feeling more adventurous, however, you can try to 
think of an explanation that reconciles seemingly in
commensurate results.
 After you roll atmospheres for each planet, repeat 
the process for temperature, biosphere, population, 
and tech level. Optionally, you can go on to add addi
tional planets or points of interest to each system.
 Finally, tack on a name for the planet and give it a 
sentence worth of description. You don’t need to flesh 
it out fully right now. Just note down whatever rough 
idea of it comes to mind from its world tags, population, 
and other planetary qualities.
Mark Polities and Trade Routes
 SeCtor Creation •131 
Identify the star systems that are in contact with each 
other and draw lines of communication between them. 
Remember that any gap of 4 or more hexes can’t be 
crossed without pretech spike drives, so any contact 
between distant clusters will have to be through an 
intermediate world.
 Worlds in contact with each other may not neces
sarily be friendly, but they do know about each other 
and have at least a basic understanding of local con
ditions. Some provision is usually made for foreign 
visitors from these other worlds, even if it’s nothing 
more than a strictly-monitored starport housing unit.
 If two or more planets seem like they ought to 
belong to the same interstellar polity, sketch out a “bor
der” around the grouping. Most TL4 worlds would be 
very hard-pressed to mount an effective interstellar 
invasion of a peer world, so these polities have likely 
formed out of diplomatic or cultural ties, or consist of 
a local hegemon exerting its rule over planets too weak 
or primitive to resist their influence.
 Many sectors will have no multi-system govern
ments of any kind. The individual worlds might be too 
independent, or the recovery of spaceflight technology 
may have been too recent to allow for ties of mutual 
governance to form yet. Such disjointed sectors can 
make life easier for the typical band of PCs, as escape 
into a new system means escape from the legal jurisdic
tion of a world they may have recently offended.
 Build Out the Important Worlds
 Most of the worlds in your sector don’t need anything 
more than what you’ve already given them. A few 
worlds need more elaborate detail, however, and for 
these you’ll want to make use of a separate planetary 
record sheet for the world.
 Only detail worlds that you’re going to need for 
the next session. In this case, that means you should 
detail the world that the campaign starts on and those 
worlds that the PCs might end up traveling to at the 
end of the first session. For most purposes, this just 
means the starting world and its immediate neighbors.
 First, pick a rough cultural template for the world. 
Maybe it has a Latin American flavor, or was founded 
by Russian colonists, or was an outpost of Byzantine 
Empire enthusiasts. This culture has doubtless changed 
drastically since its initial founding, but it gives you a 
baseline for assigning names to people and places, iden
tifying the common language spoken on the planet, and 
giving you enough information to describe local foods, 
architectural styles, and small slice-of-life elements.
 You can always take the time to create an entirely 
new hybrid culture, but whatever you make or choose 
should be clear enough in your mind to let you give 
quick answers to sudden questions about cultural val
ues or local habits. Again, it’s not critical to worry about 
historical accuracy; these worlds have had centuries to 
form their own worldviews and local customs.
 Next, use the world tags to create adventure com
ponents. Each tag includes different example Enemies, 
Friends, Complications, Things, and Places. Take an 
Enemy from both world tags or create one for each, and 
merge them together into a single antagonist. Thus, a 
Feral World with Heavy Industry might have a cannibal 
oligarch who literally lives on the flesh and blood of his 
slave laborers. Give this Enemy a name and a sentence 
of description.
 Repeat the process for a Friend, a Complication, 
a Thing, and a Place. You don’t necessarily need to use 
both tags in every instance, and you’ll likely want to 
make up your own components inspired by the tags, 
but you should have at least one item in each category 
written down on the planetary record. You’ll use these 
raw elements later to create a starting adventure for 
your band of star-faring freebooters.
 Lastly, take a few minutes to answer some critical 
questions about the planet, noting the answers down 
in the cultural section of the sheet.
 What does this world have that the PCs might care 
about? Does it export a valuable and portable commod
ity, or provide a special tech, or have unique job oppor
tunities for expendable offworlder adventurers?
 What is the biggest conflict on the world right 
now? Is it a social struggle between classes, tension 
with offworlder merchants or visitors, a war going on 
among local governments, or some other big crisis? 
Every world should have at least one obvious conflict 
that the PCs might choose to engage or be pulled into.
 What do they think about outsiders? Are they 
comfortable with offworlders, do they view them with 
unusual mistrust, or are they outright xenophobic?
 What is law enforcement like? Are there special 
laws that might tangle the PCs? If the PCs break a law, 
what kind of enforcement can they expect?
 Where do the PCs land? What’s the name of the 
major starport on the world, and does the starport have 
any special deficiencies or unique opportunities?
 You can flesh out a world beyond these questions 
if you wish, but they provide a bare minimum of data.
 Choose Factions and Relations
 Lastly, look at what you’ve created and determine 
the relationships between the starting world and its 
neighbors. Also, decide on the relationships between 
any polities you’ve established. Open interstellar war
fare is very hard for a lone TL4 world to sustain, but 
a powerful planet or combine might be able to do it. 
More likely are cold wars of spies and saboteurs.
 You may decide to establish one or more Factions 
to help give some independent motion to the sector’s 
background. Two or three Factions are plenty for the 
start of a campaign, and you should feel free to make 
new ones or let old ones fall inactive as the game pro
gresses. Rules for Factions start on page 210.
 And with that, your sector is ready for play. The 
Adventure Creation chapter gives the next step.
132• World tagS
 d100 Tag d100 Tag d100 Tag d100 Tag
 1 Abandoned Colony 26 Flying Cities 51 Misandry/Misogyny 76 Rigid Culture
 2 Alien Ruins 27 Forbidden Tech 52 Night World 77 Rising Hegemon
 3 Altered Humanity 28 Former Warriors 53 Nomads 78 Ritual Combat
 4 Anarchists 29 Freak Geology 54 Oceanic World 79 Robots
 5 Anthropomorphs 30 Freak Weather 55 Out of Contact 80 Seagoing Cities
 6 Area 51 31 Friendly Foe 56 Outpost World 81 Sealed Menace
 7 Badlands World 32 Gold Rush 57 Perimeter Agency 82 Secret Masters
 8 Battleground 33 Great Work 58 Pilgrimage Site 83 Sectarians
 9 Beastmasters 34 Hatred 59 Pleasure World 84 Seismic Instability
 10 Bubble Cities 35 Heavy Industry 60 Police State 85 Shackled World
 11 Cheap Life 36 Heavy Mining 61 Post-Scarcity 86 Societal Despair
 12 Civil War 37 Hivemind 62 Preceptor Archive 87 Sole Supplier
 13 Cold War 38 Holy War 63 Pretech Cultists 88 Taboo Treasure
 14 Colonized Population 39 Hostile Biosphere 64 Primitive Aliens 89 Terraform Failure
 15 Cultural Power 40 Hostile Space 65 Prison Planet 90 Theocracy
 16 Cybercommunists 41 Immortals 66 Psionics Academy 91 Tomb World
 17 Cyborgs 42 Local Specialty 67 Psionics Fear 92 Trade Hub
 18 Cyclical Doom 43 Local Tech 68 Psionics Worship 93 Tyranny
 19 Desert World 44 Major Spaceyard 69 Quarantined World 94 Unbraked AI
 20 Doomed World 45 Mandarinate 70 Radioactive World 95 Urbanized Surface
 21 Dying Race 46 Mandate Base 71 Refugees 96 Utopia
 22 Eugenic Cult 47 Maneaters 72 Regional Hegemon 97 Warlords
 23 Exchange Consulate 48 Megacorps 73 Restrictive Laws 98 Xenophiles
 24 Fallen Hegemon 49 Mercenaries 74 Revanchists 99 Xenophobes
 25 Feral World 50 Minimal Contact 75 Revolutionaries 00 Zombies
 assIgnIng World Tags
 The first step in world creation, and perhaps the most 
important, lies in assigning “tags” to the world. Tags 
are brief conceptual tropes that set the world off from 
planets of otherwise similar population and character
istics. You can either pick from the tag table to select 
qualities that sound interesting for a world, or else roll 
percentile dice to select them randomly.
 In general, you should pick or roll two tags for 
any given world. Using a single tag can leave a plan
et feeling somewhat flat and one-dimensional, while 
using three or more can end up muddying the feel of 
the world. The goal of the tags is not to automatical
ly combine into some intricately sophisticated world 
model, but to provide some clear, bright elements to 
relate to the PCs. Tags can randomly give you “desert 
planet torn by civil war”, from which you can then cre
ate “an arid world riven by factional disputes between 
fragmented clans, the families based around ownership 
of irreplaceable pre-Scream moisture collectors”.
 Tags are meant to simplify your life as a GM. They 
provide quick, simple hooks for adventure and cultural 
characterization to help distinguish the myriad worlds 
of your campaign from each other.
 Each tag includes associated entries for Enemies, 
Friends, Complications, Things, and Places that fit with 
that tag. GMs can combine the elements of the two 
tags to create ones flavored specifically for that world. 
For example, two random tags for a world might be 
“Regional Hegemon” and “Psionics Fear”. Combining 
the “Colonial Official” and “Mental Purity Investiga
tor” entries from the enemies lists of those tags, we 
come up with Heinrich Stalt, Imperial Mind Proctor, 
a grim inquisitor dispatched to the worlds under Im
perial “protection” to purge them of the awful curse of 
psionically-active monsters.
 These NPCs, objects, places, and situations can 
be used as raw grist for generating your adventures or 
be slotted into the scenario seeds provided later in the 
Adventure Generation chapter. Of course, not every 
Enemy will be intrinsically hostile to the PCs, nor every 
Friend necessarily a sympathetic figure.
 Naturally, you should feel free to come up with 
your own tags as well. Almost any science-fiction trope 
that you enjoy can be turned into a tag, and charac
teristic elements can be blended into the list of raw 
adventure components.
Abandoned Colony
 Alien Ruins
 World tagS •133 
The world once hosted a colony, whether human or 
otherwise, until some crisis or natural disaster drove 
the inhabitants away or killed them off. The colony 
might have been mercantile in nature, an expedition 
to extract valuable local resources, or it might have 
been a reclusive cabal of zealots. The remains of the 
colony are usually in ruins, and might still be dan
gerous from the aftermath of whatever destroyed it 
in the first place.
 E Crazed survivors, Ruthless plunderers of the 
ruins, Automated defense system
 F Inquisitive stellar archaeologist, Heir to the col
ony’s property, Local wanting the place cleaned 
out and made safe
 C The local government wants the ruins to remain 
a secret, The locals claim ownership of it, The 
colony is crumbling and dangerous to navigate
 T Long-lost property deeds, Relic stolen by the 
colonists when they left, Historical record of 
the colonization attempt
 P Decaying habitation block, Vine-covered town 
square, Structure buried by an ancient landslide
 Altered Humanity
 The humans on this world are visibly and drastical
ly different from normal humanity. They may have 
additional limbs, new sensory organs, or other sig
nificant changes. Were these from ancestral eugenic 
manipulation, strange stellar mutations, or from an 
environmental toxin unique to this world?
 E Biochauvinist local, Local experimenter, Men
tally unstable mutant
 F Local seeking a “cure”, Curious xenophiliac, An
thropological researcher
 C Alteration is contagious, Alteration is necessary 
for long-term survival, Locals fear and mistrust 
non-local humans
 T Original pretech mutagenic equipment, Valu
able biological byproduct from the mutants, 
“Cure” for the altered genes, Record of the orig
inal colonial genotypes
 P Abandoned eugenics laboratory, An environ
ment requiring the mutation for survival, A 
sacred site where the first local was transformed
 The world has significant alien ruins present. The 
locals may or may not permit others to investigate 
the ruins, and may make it difficult to remove any 
objects of value without substantial payment. Any 
surviving ruins with worthwhile salvage almost cer
tainly have some defense or hazard to explain their 
unplundered state.
 E Customs inspector, Worshipper of the ruins, 
Hidden alien survivor
 F Curious scholar, Avaricious local resident, In
terstellar smuggler
 C Traps in the ruins, Remote location, Paranoid 
customs officials
 T Precious alien artifacts, Objects left with the 
remains of a prior unsuccessful expedition, Un
translated alien texts, Untouched hidden ruins
 P Undersea ruin, Orbital ruin, Perfectly preserved 
alien building, Alien mausoleum
 Anarchists
 Rather than being an incidental anarchy of struggling 
tribes and warring factions, this world actually has a 
functional society with no centralized authority. Au
thority might be hyper-localized to extended families, 
specific religious parishes, or voluntary associations. 
Some force is preventing an outside group or internal 
malcontents from coalescing into a power capable of 
imposing its rule on the locals; this force might be an 
ancient pretech defense system, a benevolent military 
AI, or the sheer obscurity and isolation of the culture.
 E Offworlder imperialist, Reformer seeking to 
impose “good government”, Exploiter taking 
advantage of the lack of centralized resistance
 F Proud missionary for anarchy, Casual local free 
spirit, Curious offworlder political scientist
 C The anarchistic structure is compelled by an 
external power, The anarchy is enabled by cur
rently abundant resources, The protecting force 
that shelters the anarchy is waning
 T A macguffin that would let the possessor enforce 
their rule on others, A vital resource needed to 
preserve general liberty, Tech forbidden as dis
ruptive to the social order
 P Community of similar-sized homes, Isolated 
clan homestead, Automated mining site
134• World tagS
 Anthropomorphs
 The locals were originally human, but at some point 
became anthropomorphic, either as an ancient furry 
colony, a group of animal-worshiping sectarians, or 
gengineers who just happened to find animal ele
ments most convenient for surviving on the world. 
Depending on the skill of the original gengineers, 
their feral forms may or may not work as well as their 
original human bodies, or may come with drawbacks 
inherited from their animal elements.
 E Anthro-supremacist local, Native driven by feral 
urges, Outside exploiter who sees the locals as 
subhuman creatures
 F Fascinated genetic researcher, Diplomat trained 
to deal with normals, Local needing outside help
 C The locals consider their shapes a curse from 
their foolish ancestors, Society is ordered ac
cording to animal forms, The locals view normal 
humans as repulsive or inferior
 T Pretech gengineering tech, A “cure” that may not 
be wanted, Sacred feral totem
 P Shrine to a feral deity, Nature preserve suited to 
an animal type, Living site built to take advan
tage of animal traits
 Area 51
 The world’s government is fully aware of their local 
stellar neighbors, but the common populace has no 
idea about it- and the government means to keep 
it that way. Trade with government officials in re
mote locations is possible, but any attempt to clue the 
commoners in on the truth will be met with lethal 
reprisals.
 E Suspicious government minder, Free merchant 
who likes his local monopoly, Local who wants 
a specimen for dissection
 F Crusading offworld investigator, Conspira
cy-theorist local, Idealistic government reformer
 C The government has a good reason to keep the 
truth concealed, The government ruthlessly op
presses the natives, The government is actually 
composed of offworlders
 T Elaborate spy devices, Memory erasure tech, 
Possessions of the last offworlder who decided 
to spread the truth
 P Desert airfield, Deep subterranean bunker, Hid
den mountain valley
Badlands World
 Battleground
 World tagS •135 
Whatever the original climate and atmosphere type, 
something horrible happened to this world. Bio
logical, chemical, or nanotechnical weaponry has 
reduced it to a wretched hellscape. Some local life 
might still be able to survive on its blasted surface, 
usually at some dire cost in health or humanity.
 E Mutated badlands fauna, Desperate local, Bad
lands raider chief
 F Native desperately wishing to escape the world, 
Scientist researching ecological repair methods, 
Ruin scavenger
 C Radioactivity, Bioweapon traces, Broken terrain, 
Sudden local plague
 T Maltech research core, Functional pretech 
weaponry, An uncontaminated well
 P Untouched oasis, Ruined city, Salt flat
 Beastmasters
 The natives have extremely close bonds with the local 
fauna, possibly having special means of communica
tion and control through tech or gengineering. Local 
animal life plays a major role in their society, indus
try, or warfare, and new kinds of beasts may be bred 
to suit their purposes.
 E Half-feral warlord of a beast swarm, Coldly in
human scientist, Altered beast with human in
tellect and furious malice
 F Native bonded with an adorable animal, Herder 
of very useful beasts, Animal-revering mystic
 C The “animals” are very heavily gengineered hu
mans, The animals actually run the society, The 
animals have the same rights as humans
 T Tech used to alter animal life, A plague vial that 
could wipe out the animals, A pretech device 
that can perform a wonder if operated by a beast
 P Park designed as a comfortable home for beasts, 
Public plaza designed to accommodate animal 
companions, Factory full of animal workers
 The world is a battleground for two or more outside 
powers. They may be interstellar rivals, or groups 
operating out of orbitals or other system bodies. 
Something about the planet is valuable enough for 
them to fight over, but the natives are too weak to be 
anything but animate obstacles to the fight.
 E Ruthless military commander, Looter pack 
chieftain, Traitorous collaborator
 F Native desperately seeking protection, Pragmat
ic military officer, Hapless war orphan
 C The war just ended as both sides are leaving, The 
natives somehow brought this on themselves, A 
small group of natives profit tremendously from 
the fighting
 T A cache of the resource the invaders seek, Aban
doned prototype military gear, Precious spy in
telligence lost by someone
 P Artillery-pocked wasteland, Reeking refugee 
camp, Burnt-out shell of a city
 Bubble Cities
 Whether due to a lack of atmosphere or an uninhab
itable climate, the world’s cities exist within domes or 
pressurized buildings. In such sealed environments, 
techniques of surveillance and control can grow ba
roque and extreme.
 E Native dreading outsider contamination, Sab
oteur from another bubble city, Local official 
hostile to outsider ignorance of laws
 F Local rebel against the city officials, Mainte
nance chief in need of help, Surveyor seeking 
new building sites
 C Bubble rupture, Failing atmosphere reproces
sor, Native revolt against officials, All-seeing 
surveillance cameras
 T Pretech habitat technology, Valuable industrial 
products, Master key codes to a city’s security 
system
 P City power core, Surface of the bubble, Hydro
ponics complex, Warren-like hab block
Civil War
 136• World tagS
 Cheap Life
 Human life is near-worthless on this world. Ubiqui
tous cloning, local conditions that ensure early death, 
a culture that reveres murder, or a social structure 
that utterly discounts the value of most human lives 
ensures that death is the likely outcome for any ac
tion that irritates someone consequential. 
E Master assassin, Bloody-handed judge, Overseer 
of disposable clones
 F Endearing local whose life the PCs accidental
ly bought, Escapee from death seeking outside 
help, Reformer trying to change local mores
 C Radiation or local diseases ensure all locals die 
before twenty-five years of age, Tech ensures 
that death is just an annoyance, Locals are totally 
convinced of a blissful afterlife
 T Device that revives or re-embodies the dead, 
Maltech engine fueled by human life, Priceless 
treasure held by a now-dead owner
 P Thronging execution ground, extremely curso
ry cemetery, Factory full of lethal dangers that 
could be corrected easily
 Cold War
 Two or more great powers control the planet, and 
they have a hostility to each other that’s just barely 
less than open warfare. The hostility might be ideo
logical in nature, or it might revolve around control 
of some local resource.
 E Suspicious chief of intelligence, Native who 
thinks the outworlders are with the other side, 
Femme fatale
 F Apolitical information broker, Spy for the other 
side, Unjustly accused innocent, “He’s a bastard, 
but he’s our bastard” official
 C Police sweep, Low-level skirmishing, “Red scare”
 T List of traitors in government, secret military 
plans, Huge cache of weapons built up in prepa
ration for war
 P Seedy bar in a neutral area, Political rally, Isolat
ed area where fighting is underway
 The world is currently torn between at least two op
posing factions, all of which claim legitimacy. The 
war may be the result of a successful rebel uprising 
against tyranny, or it might just be the result of 
schemers who plan to be the new masters once the 
revolution is complete.
 E Faction commissar, Angry native, Conspiracy 
theorist who blames offworlders for the war, 
Deserter looking out for himself, Guerrilla ban
dit chieftain
 F Faction loyalist seeking aid, Native caught in 
the crossfire, Offworlder seeking passage off 
the planet
 C The front rolls over the group, Famine strikes, 
Bandit infestations are in the way
 T Ammo dump, Military cache, Treasure buried 
for after the war, Secret war plans
 P Battle front, Bombed-out town, Rear-area red 
light zone, Propaganda broadcast tower
 Colonized Population
 A neighboring world has successfully colonized this 
less-advanced or less-organized planet, and the na
tives aren’t happy about it. A puppet government 
may exist, but all real decisions are made by the local 
viceroy.
 E Suspicious security personnel, Offworlder-hat
ing natives, Local crime boss preying on rich 
offworlders
 F Native resistance leader, Colonial official seek
ing help, Native caught between the two sides
 C Natives won’t talk to offworlders, Colonial re
pression, Misunderstood local customs
 T Relic of the resistance movement, List of collab
orators, Precious substance extracted by colonial 
labor
 P Deep wilderness resistance camp, City district 
off-limits to natives, Colonial labor site
Cultural Power
 Cybercommunists
 World tagS •137 
The world is a considerable cultural power in the 
sector, producing music, art, philosophy, or some 
similar intangible that their neighbors find irresist
ibly attractive. Other worlds might have a profound 
degree of cultural cachet as the inheritor of some 
venerable artistic tradition.
 E Murderously eccentric artist, Crazed fan, Failed 
artist with an obsessive grudge, Critic with a 
crusade to enact
 F Struggling young artist, Pupil of the artistic tra
dition, Scholar of the art, Offworlder hating the 
source of corrupting alien ways
 C The art is slowly lethal to its masters, The art 
is mentally or physically addictive, The art is a 
fragment of ancient technical or military science
 T The instrument of a legendary master, The only 
copy of a dead master’s opus, Proof of intellectu
al property ownership
 P Recording or performance studio, Public festi
val choked with tourists, Monument to a dead 
master of the art
 Cyborgs
 The planet’s population makes heavy use of cyber
netics, with many of the inhabitants possessing at 
least a cosmetic amount of chrome. This may be the 
result of a strong local cyber tech base, a religious 
injunction, or simply a necessary measure to survive 
the local conditions.
 E Ambitious hacker of cyber implants, Cybertech 
oligarch, Researcher craving fresh offworlders, 
Cybered-up gang boss
 F Charity-working implant physician, Idealistic 
young cyber researcher, Avant-garde activist
 C The powerful and dangerous come here often 
for cutting-edge implants, The cyber has some 
universal negative side-effect, Cyber and those 
implanted with it are forbidden to leave the 
planet as a tech security measure
 T Unique prototype cyber implant, Secret research 
files, A virus that debilitates cyborgs, A cache of 
critically-needed therapeutic cyber
 P Grimy slum chop-shop, Bloody lair of implant 
rippers, Stark plaza where everyone is seeing 
things through their augmented-reality cyber
 On this world communism actually works, thanks 
to pretech computing devices and greater or lesser 
amounts of psychic precognition. Central planning 
nodes direct all production and employment on the 
world. Citizens in good standing have access to ample 
amounts of material goods for all needs and many 
wants. Instead of strife over wealth, conflicts erupt 
over political controls, cultural precepts, or control 
over the planning nodes. Many cybercommunist 
worlds show a considerable bias toward the private 
interests of those who run the planning nodes.
 E Embittered rebel against perceived unfairness, 
Offworlder saboteur, Aspiring Stalin-figure
 F Idealistic planning node tech, Cynical anti-cor
ruption cop, Precognitive economist
 C The pretech planning computers are breaking 
down, The planning only works because the 
locals have been mentally or physically altered, 
The planning computers can’t handle the in
creasing population within the system
 T Planning node computer, Wildly destabilizing 
commodity that can’t be factored into plans, A 
tremendous store of valuables made by accident
 P Humming factory, Apartment block of perfectly 
equal flats, Mass demonstration of unity
 Cyclical Doom
 The world regularly suffers some apocalyptic ca
tastrophe that wipes out organized civilization on it. 
The local culture is aware of this cycle and has tra
ditions to ensure a fragment of civilization survives 
into the next era, but these traditions don’t always 
work properly, and sometimes dangerous fragments 
of the past emerge.
 E Offworlder seeking to trigger the apocalypse 
early for profit, Local recklessly taking advan
tage of preparation stores, Demagogue claiming 
the cycle is merely a myth of the authorities
 F Harried official working to prepare, Offworlder 
studying the cycles, Local threatened by perils of 
the cycle’s initial stages
 C The cycles really are a myth of the authorities, 
The cycles are controlled by alien constructs, An 
outside power is interfering with preparation
 T A lost cache of ancient treasures, Tech or ar
chives that will pinpoint the cycle’s timing, Key
codes to bypass an ancient vault’s security
 P Lethally-defended vault of forgotten secrets, 
Starport crowded with panicked refugees, Town 
existing in the shadow of some monstrous mon
ument to a former upheaval
138• World tagS
 Desert World
 The world may have a breathable atmosphere and a 
human-tolerable temperature range, but it is an arid, 
stony waste outside of a few places made habitable 
by human effort. The deep wastes are largely unex
plored and inhabited by outcasts and worse.
 E Raider chieftain, Crazed hermit, Angry isola
tionists, Paranoid mineral prospector, Strange 
desert beast
 F Native guide, Research biologist, Aspiring ter
raformer
 C Sandstorms, Water supply failure, Native war
fare over water rights
 T Enormous water reservoir, Map of hidden wells, 
Pretech rainmaking equipment
 P Oasis, “The Empty Quarter” of the desert, Hid
den underground cistern
 Doomed World
 The world is doomed, and the locals may or may not 
know it. Some cosmic catastrophe looms before them, 
and the locals have no realistic way to get everyone to 
safety. To the extent that the public is aware, society 
is disintegrating into a combination of religious fer
vor, abject hedonism, and savage violence.
 E Crazed prophet of a false salvation, Ruthless 
leader seeking to flee with their treasures, Cyn
ical ship captain selling a one-way trip into hard 
vacuum as escape to another world
 F Appealing waif or family head seeking escape, 
Offworld relief coordinator, Harried law officer
 C The doom is false or won’t actually kill everyone, 
The doom was intentionally triggered by some
one, Mass escape is possible if warring groups 
can somehow be brought to cooperate
 T Clearance for a ship to leave the planet, A cache 
of priceless cultural artifacts, The life savings of 
someone trying to buy passage out, Data that 
would prove to the public the end is nigh
 P Open square beneath a sky angry with a fore
taste of th impending ruin, Orgiastic celebration 
involving sex and murder in equal parts, Holy 
site full of desperate petitioners to the divine
 Dying Race
 The inhabitants of this world are dying out, and they 
know it. Through environmental toxins, hostile 
bio-weapons, or sheer societal despair, the culture 
cannot replenish its numbers. Members seek mean
ing in their own strange goals or peculiar faiths, 
though a few might struggle to find some way to 
reverse their slow yet inevitable doom.
 E Hostile outsider who wants the locals dead, Off
worlder seeking to take advantage of their weak
ened state, Invaders eager to push the locals out 
of their former lands
 F One of the few youth among the population, 
Determined and hopeful reformer, Researcher 
seeking a new method of reproduction
 C The dying culture’s values were monstrous, The 
race’s death is somehow necessary to prevent 
some grand catastrophe, The race is somehow 
convinced they deserve this fate
 T Extremely valuable reproductive tech, Trea
sured artifacts of the former age, Bioweapon 
used on the race
 P City streets devoid of pedestrians, Mighty edifice 
now crumbling with disrepair, Small dwelling 
full of people in a town now otherwise empty
 Eugenic Cult
 Even in the days before the Silence, major improve
ment of the human genome always seemed to come 
with unacceptable side-effects. Some worlds host 
secret cults that perpetuate these improvements 
regardless of the cost, and a few planets have been 
taken over entirely by the cults.
 E Eugenic superiority fanatic, Mentally unstable 
homo superior, Mad eugenic scientist
 F Eugenic propagandist, Biotechnical investigator, 
Local seeking revenge on cult
 C The altered cultists look human, The locals are 
terrified of any unusual physical appearance, 
The genetic modifications- and drawbacks- are 
contagious with long exposure
 T Serum that induces the alteration, Elixir that 
reverses the alteration, Pretech biotechnical da
tabanks, List of secret cult sympathizers
 P Eugenic breeding pit, Isolated settlement of 
altered humans, Public place infiltrated by cult 
sympathizers
World tagS •139 
Exchange Consulate
 The Exchange of Light once served as the largest, 
most trusted banking and diplomatic service in hu
man space. Even after the Silence, some worlds retain 
a functioning Exchange Consulate where banking 
services and arbitration can be arranged.
 E Corrupt Exchange official, Indebted native 
who thinks the players are Exchange agents, 
Exchange official dunning the players for debts 
incurred
 F Consul in need of offworld help, Local banker 
seeking to hurt his competition, Exchange dip
lomat
 C The local Consulate has been corrupted, the 
Consulate is cut off from its funds, A powerful 
debtor refuses to pay
 T Exchange vault codes, Wealth hidden to con
ceal it from a bankruptcy judgment, Location 
of forgotten vault
 P Consulate meeting chamber, Meeting site be
tween fractious disputants, Exchange vault
 Fallen Hegemon
 At some point in the past, this world was a hegemon
ic power over some or all of the sector, thanks to su
perior tech, expert diplomacy, the weakness of their 
neighbors, or inherited Mandate legitimacy. Some 
kind of crash or revolt broke their power, however, 
and now the world is littered with the wreckage of 
former glory.
 E Bitter pretender to a meaningless throne, Re
sentful official dreaming of empire, Vengeful 
offworlder seeking to punish their old rulers
 F Realistic local leader trying to hold things to
gether, Scholar of past glories, Refugee from an 
overthrown colonial enclave
 C The hegemon’s rule was enlightened and fair, It 
collapsed due to its own internal strife rather 
than external resistance, It pretends that nothing 
has happened to its power, It’s been counter-col
onized by vengeful outsiders
 T Precious insignia of former rule, Relic tech im
portant to its power, Plundered colonial artifact
 P Palace far too grand for its current occupant, 
Oversized spaceport now in disrepair, Boule
vard lined with monuments to past glories
140• World tagS
 Feral World
 In the long, isolated night of the Silence, some worlds 
have experienced total moral and cultural collapse. 
Whatever remains has been twisted beyond recogni
tion into assorted death cults, xenophobic fanaticism, 
horrific cultural practices, or other behavior unac
ceptable on more enlightened worlds. These worlds 
are almost invariably quarantined by other planets.
 E Decadent noble, Mad cultist, Xenophobic local, 
Cannibal chief, Maltech researcher
 F Trapped outworlder, Aspiring reformer, Native 
wanting to avoid traditional flensing
 C Horrific local “celebration”, Inexplicable and re
pugnant social rules, Taboo zones and people
 T Terribly misused piece of pretech, Wealth ac
cumulated through brutal evildoing, Valuable 
possession owned by luckless outworlder victim
 P Atrocity amphitheater, Traditional torture par
lor, Ordinary location twisted into something 
terrible.
 Flying Cities
 Perhaps the world is a gas giant, or plagued with un
endurable storms at lower levels of the atmosphere. 
For whatever reason, the cities of this world fly 
above the surface of the planet. Perhaps they remain 
stationary, or perhaps they move from point to point 
in search of resources.
 E Rival city pilot, Tech thief attempting to steal 
outworld gear, Saboteur or scavenger plunder
ing the city’s tech
 F Maintenance tech in need of help, City defense 
force pilot, Meteorological researcher
 C Sudden storms, Drastic altitude loss, Rival city 
attacks, Vital machinery breaks down
 T Precious refined atmospheric gases, Pretech 
grav engine plans, Meteorological codex pre
dicting future storms
 P Underside of the city, The one calm place on 
the planet’s surface, Catwalks stretching over 
unimaginable gulfs below.
 Forbidden Tech
 Some group on this planet fabricates or uses maltech. 
Unbraked AIs doomed to metastasize into insanity, 
nation-destroying nanowarfare particles, slow-burn 
DNA corruptives, genetically engineered slaves, or 
something worse still. The planet’s larger population 
may or may not be aware of the danger in their midst.
 E Mad scientist, Maltech buyer from offworld, Se
curity enforcer
 F Victim of maltech, Perimeter agent, Investiga
tive reporter, Conventional arms merchant
 C The maltech is being fabricated by an unbraked 
AI, The government depends on revenue from 
maltech sales to offworlders, Citizens insist that 
it’s not really maltech
 T Maltech research data, The maltech itself, Pre
cious pretech equipment used to create it
 P Horrific laboratory, Hellscape sculpted by the 
maltech’s use, Government building meeting 
room
 Former Warriors
 The locals of this world were once famed for their 
martial prowess. They may have simply had a very 
militaristic culture, or were genetically engineered 
for combat, or developed high-tech weaponry, or had 
brilliant leadership. Those days are past, however, ei
ther due to crushing defeat, external restrictions, or 
a cultural turn toward peace.
 E Unreformed warlord leader, Bitter mercenary 
chief, Victim of their warfare seeking revenge
 F Partisan of the new peaceful ways, Outsider des
perate for military aid, Martial genius repressed 
by the new dispensation
 C Neighboring worlds want them pacified or dead, 
They only ever used their arts in self-defense, 
The source of their gifts has been “turned off” in 
a reversible way
 T War trophy taken from a defeated foe, Key to 
re-activating their martial ways, Secret cache of 
high-tech military gear
 P Cemetery of dead heroes, Memorial hall now 
left to dust and silence, Monument plaza dedi
cated to the new culture
Freak Geology
 Freak Weather
 World tagS •141 
The geology or geography of this world is simply 
freakish. Perhaps it’s composed entirely of enormous 
mountain ranges, or regular bands of land and sea, or 
the mineral structures all fragment into perfect cubes. 
The locals have learned to deal with it and their cul
ture will be shaped by its requirements.
 E Crank xenogeologist, Cultist who believes it the 
work of aliens
 F Research scientist, Prospector, Artist
 C Local conditions that no one remembers to tell 
outworlders about, Lethal weather, Seismic ac
tivity
 T Unique crystal formations, Hidden veins of a 
major precious mineral strike, Deed to a loca
tion of great natural beauty
 P Atop a bizarre geological formation, Tourist re
sort catering to offworlders
 Friendly Foe
 Some hostile alien race or malevolent cabal has a 
branch or sect on this world that is actually quite 
friendly toward outsiders. For whatever internal rea
son, they are willing to negotiate and deal honestly 
with strangers, and appear to lack the worst impulses 
of their fellows.
 E Driven hater of all their kind, Internal malcon
tent bent on creating conflict, Secret master who 
seeks to lure trust
 F Well-meaning bug-eyed monster, Principled 
eugenics cultist, Suspicious investigator
 C The group actually is as harmless and benevolent 
as they seem, The group offers a vital service 
at the cost of moral compromise, The group 
still feels bonds of affiliation with their hostile 
brethren
 T Forbidden xenotech, Eugenic biotech template, 
Evidence to convince others of their kind that 
they are right
 P Repurposed maltech laboratory, Alien conclave 
building, Widely-feared starship interior
 The planet is plagued with some sort of bizarre or 
hazardous weather pattern. Perhaps city-flattening 
storms regularly scourge the surface, or the world’s 
sun never pierces its thick banks of clouds.
 E Criminal using the weather as a cover, Weather 
cultists convinced the offworlders are responsi
ble for some disaster, Native predators depen
dent on the weather
 F Meteorological researcher, Holodoc crew want
ing shots of the weather
 C The weather itself, Malfunctioning pretech ter
raforming engines that cause the weather
 T Wind-scoured deposits of precious minerals, 
Holorecords of a spectacularly and rare weather 
pattern, Naturally-sculpted objects of intricate 
beauty
 P Eye of the storm, The one sunlit place, Terra
forming control room
 Gold Rush
 Gold, silver, and other conventional precious min
erals are common and cheap now that asteroid min
ing is practical for most worlds. But some minerals 
and compounds remain precious and rare, and this 
world has recently been discovered to have a supply 
of them. People from across the sector have come to 
strike it rich.
 E Paranoid prospector, Aspiring mining tycoon, 
Rapacious merchant
 F Claim-jumped miner, Native alien, Curious 
tourist
 C The strike is a hoax, The strike is of a dangerous 
toxic substance, Export of the mineral is prohib
ited by the planetary government, The native 
aliens live around the strike’s location
 T Cases of the refined element, Pretech mining 
equipment, A dead prospector’s claim deed
 P Secret mine, Native alien village, Processing 
plant, Boom town
142• World tagS
 Great Work
 The locals are obsessed with completing a massive 
project, one that has consumed them for genera
tions. It might be the completion of a functioning 
spaceyard, a massive solar power array, a network of 
terraforming engines, or the universal conversion of 
their neighbors to their own faith. The purpose of 
their entire civilization is to progress and some day 
complete the work.
 E Local planning to sacrifice the PCs for the work, 
Local who thinks the PCs threaten the work, 
Obsessive zealot ready to destroy someone or 
something important to the PCs for the sake of 
the work
 F Outsider studying the work, Local with a more 
temperate attitude, Supplier of work materials
 C The work is totally hopeless, Different factions 
disagree on what the work is, An outside power 
is determined to thwart the work
 T Vital supplies for the work, Plans that have been 
lost, Tech that greatly speeds the work
 P A bustling work site, Ancestral worker housing, 
Local community made only semi-livable by the 
demands of the work
 Hatred
 For whatever reason, this world’s populace has a 
burning hatred for the inhabitants of a neighboring 
system. Perhaps this world was colonized by exiles, or 
there was a recent interstellar war, or ideas of racial 
or religious superiority have fanned the hatred. Re
gardless of the cause, the locals view their neighbor 
and any sympathizers with loathing.
 E Native convinced that the offworlders are agents 
of Them, Cynical politician in need of scape
goats
 F Intelligence agent needing catspaws, Holodoc 
producers needing “an inside look”, Unlucky 
offworlder from the hated system
 C The characters are wearing or using items from 
the hated world, The characters are known to 
have done business there, The characters “look 
like” the hated others
 T Proof of Their evildoing, Reward for turning in 
enemy agents, Relic stolen by Them years ago
 P War crimes museum, Atrocity site, Captured 
and decommissioned spaceship kept as a trophy
 Heavy Industry
 With interstellar transport so limited in the bulk it 
can move, worlds have to be largely self-sufficient 
in industry. Some worlds are more sufficient than 
others, however, and this planet has a thriving man
ufacturing sector capable of producing large amounts 
of goods appropriate to its tech level. The locals may 
enjoy a correspondingly higher lifestyle, or the prod
ucts might be devoted towards vast projects for the 
aggrandizement of the rulers.
 E Tycoon monopolist, Industrial spy, Malcontent 
revolutionary
 F Aspiring entrepreneur, Worker union leader, 
Ambitious inventor
 C The factories are toxic, The resources extract
able at their tech level are running out, The 
masses require the factory output for survival, 
The industries’ major output is being obsoleted 
by offworld tech
 T Confidential industrial data, Secret union mem
bership lists, Ownership shares in an industrial 
complex
 P Factory floor, Union meeting hall, Toxic waste 
dump, R&D complex
 Heavy Mining
 This world has large stocks of valuable minerals, 
usually necessary for local industry, life support, or 
refinement into loads small enough to export off
world. Major mining efforts are necessary to extract 
the minerals, and many natives work in the industry.
 E Mine boss, Tunnel saboteur, Subterranean 
predators
 F Hermit prospector, Offworld investor, Miner’s 
union representative
 C The refinery equipment breaks down, Tunnel 
collapse, Silicate life forms growing in the min
ers’ lungs
 T The mother lode, Smuggled case of refined min
eral, Faked crystalline mineral samples
 P Vertical mine face, Tailing piles, Roaring smelt
ing complex
Hivemind
 Holy War
 World tagS •143 
Natives of this world exist in a kind of mental gestalt, 
sharing thoughts and partaking of a single identity. 
Powerful pretech, exotic psionics, alien influence, or 
some other cause has left the world sharing one iden
tity. Individual members may have greater or lesser 
degrees of effective coordination with the whole.
 E A hivemind that wants to assimilate outsiders, A 
hivemind that has no respect for unjoined life, A 
hivemind that fears and hates unjoined life 
F A scholar studying the hivemind, A person sev
ered from the gestalt, A relative of someone who 
has been assimilated
 C The hivemind only functions on this world, The 
hivemind has strict range limits, The hivemind 
has different personality factions, The hivemind 
only happens at particular times, The world is 
made of semi-sentient drones and a single AI
 T Vital tech for maintaining the mind, Precious 
treasure held by now-assimilated outsider, Tech 
that “blinds” the hivemind to the tech’s users
 P Barely tolerable living cells for individuals, 
Workside where individuals casually die in their 
labors, Community with absolutely no social or 
group-gathering facilities
 Hostile Biosphere
 The world is teeming with life, and it hates humans. 
Perhaps the life is xenoallergenic, forcing filter masks 
and tailored antiallergens for survival. It could be the 
native predators are huge and fearless, or the toxic 
flora ruthlessly outcompetes earth crops.
 E Local fauna, Nature cultist, Native aliens, Cal
lous labor overseer
 F Xenobiologist, Tourist on safari, Grizzled local 
guide
 C Filter masks fail, Parasitic alien infestation, Crop 
greenhouses lose bio-integrity
 T Valuable native biological extract, Abandoned 
colony vault, Remains of an unsuccessful expe
dition
 P Deceptively peaceful glade, Steaming poly
chrome jungle, Nightfall when surrounded by 
Things
 A savage holy war is raging on this world, either be
tween factions of locals or as a united effort against 
the pagans of some neighboring world. This war 
might involve a conventional religion, or it might be 
the result of a branding campaign, political ideology, 
artistic movement, or any other cause that people use 
as a substitute for traditional religion.
 E Blood-mad pontiff, Coldly cynical secular leader, 
Totalitarian political demagogue
 F Desperate peacemaker, Hard-pressed refugee of 
the fighting, Peaceful religious leader who lost 
the internal debate
 C The targets of the war really are doing some
thing diabolically horrible, The holy war is just a 
mask for a very traditional casus belli, The lead
ers don’t want the war won but only prolonged, 
Both this world and the target of the war are 
religion-obsessed
 T Sacred relic of the faith, A captured blasphemer 
under a death sentence, Plunder seized in battle
 P Massive holy structure, Razed community of 
infidels, Vast shrine to the martyrs dead in war
 Hostile Space
 The system in which the world exists is a dangerous 
neighborhood. Something about the system is per
ilous to inhabitants, either through meteor swarms, 
stellar radiation, hostile aliens in the asteroid belt, or 
periodic comet clouds.
 E Alien raid leader, Meteor-launching terrorists, 
Paranoid local leader
 F Astronomic researcher, Local defense com
mander, Early warning monitor agent
 C The natives believe the danger is divine chas
tisement, The natives blame outworlders for the 
danger, The native elite profit from the danger 
in some way
 T Early warning of a raid or impact, Abandoned 
riches in a disaster zone, Key to a secure bunker
 P City watching an approaching asteroid, Village 
burnt in an alien raid, Massive ancient crater
Local Specialty
 144• World tagS
 Immortals
 Natives of this world are effectively immortal. They 
may have been gengineered for tremendous lifespans, 
or have found some local anagathic, or be cyborg life 
forms, or be so totally convinced of reincarnation 
that death is a cultural irrelevance. Any immortality 
technique is likely applicable only to them, or else 
it’s apt to be a massive draw to outside imperialists.
 E Outsider determined to steal immortality, Smug 
local convinced of their immortal wisdom to 
rule all, Offworlder seeking the world’s ruin 
before it becomes a threat to all
 F Curious longevity researcher, Thrill-seeking 
local, 
C Immortality requires doing something that out
siders can’t or won’t willingly do, The immor
tality ends if they leave the world, Death is the 
punishment for even minor crimes, Immortals 
must die or go offworld after a certain span, Im
mortality has brutal side-effects
 T Immortality drug, Masterwork of an ageless ar
tisan, Toxin that only affects immortals
 P Community with no visible children, Unchang
ing structure of obvious ancient age, Cultural 
performance relying on a century of in-jokes
 Local Tech
 The locals can create a particular example of ex
tremely high tech, possibly even something that ex
ceeds pretech standards. They may use unique local 
resources to do so, or have stumbled on a narrow 
scientific breakthrough, or still have a functional ex
perimental manufactory.
 E Keeper of the tech, Offworld industrialist, Auto
mated defenses that suddenly come alive, Native 
alien mentors
 F Curious offworld scientist, Eager tech buyer, 
Native in need of technical help
 C The tech is unreliable, The tech only works on 
this world, The tech has poorly-understood side 
effects, The tech is alien in nature.
 T The tech itself, An unclaimed payment for a 
large shipment, The secret blueprints for its 
construction, An ancient alien R&D database
 P Alien factory, Lethal R&D center, Tech broker
age vault
 The world may be sophisticated or barely capable of 
steam engines, but either way it produces something 
rare and precious to the wider galaxy. It might be 
some pharmaceutical extract produced by a secret 
recipe, a remarkably popular cultural product, or 
even gengineered humans uniquely suited for cer
tain work.
 E Monopolist, Offworlder seeking prohibition of 
the specialty, Native who views the specialty as 
sacred
 F Spy searching for the source, Artisan seeking 
protection, Exporter with problems
 C The specialty is repugnant in nature, The craft
ers refuse to sell to offworlders, The specialty is 
made in a remote, dangerous place, The crafters 
don’t want to make the specialty any more
 T The specialty itself, The secret recipe, Sample of 
a new improved variety
 P Secret manufactory, Hidden cache, Artistic com
petition for best artisan
 Major Spaceyard
 Most worlds of tech level 4 or greater have the nec
essary tech and orbital facilities to build spike drives 
and starships. This world is blessed with a major 
spaceyard facility, either inherited from before the 
Silence or painstakingly constructed in more recent 
decades. It can build even capital-class hulls, and do 
so more quickly and cheaply than its neighbors.
 E Enemy saboteur, Industrial spy, Scheming con
struction tycoon, Aspiring ship hijacker
 F Captain stuck in drydock, Maintenance chief, 
Mad innovator
 C The spaceyard is an alien relic, The spaceyard 
is burning out from overuse, The spaceyard is 
alive, The spaceyard relies on maltech to func
tion
 T Intellectual property-locked pretech blueprints, 
Override keys for activating old pretech facilities, 
A purchased but unclaimed spaceship.
 P Hidden shipyard bay, Surface of a partially-com
pleted ship, Ship scrap graveyard
Mandarinate
 Mandate Base
 World tagS •145 
The planet is ruled by an intellectual elite chosen via 
ostensibly neutral examinations or tests. The values 
this system selects for may or may not have anything 
to do with actual practical leadership skills, and the 
examinations may be more or less corruptible.
 E Corrupt test administrator, Incompetent but 
highly-rated graduate, Ruthless leader of a clan 
of high-testing relations
 F Crusader for test reform, Talented but poor
ly-connected graduate, Genius who tests badly
 C The test is totally unrelated to necessary gov
erning skills, The test was very pertinent in the 
past but tech or culture has changed, The test 
is for a skill that is vital to maintaining society 
but irrelevant to day-to-day governance, The 
test is a sham and passage is based on wealth 
or influence
 T Answer key to the next test, Lost essay of incred
ible merit, Proof of cheating
 P Massive structure full of test-taking cubicles, 
School filled with desperate students, Ornate 
government building decorated with scholarly 
quotes and academic images
 Maneaters
 The locals are cannibals, either out of necessity or out 
of cultural preference. Some worlds may actually eat 
human flesh, while others simply require the render
ing of humans into important chemicals or pharma
ceutical compounds, perhaps to prolong the lives of 
ghoul overlords. This cannibalism plays a major role 
in their society.
 E Ruthless ghoul leader, Chieftain of a ravenous 
tribe, Sophisticated degenerate preaching the 
splendid authenticity of cannibalism
 F Sympathetic local fleeing the fork, Escapee from 
a pharmaceutical rendering plant, Outsider cho
sen for dinner, Reformer seeking to break the 
custom or its necessity
 C Local food or environmental conditions make 
human consumption grimly necessary, The lo
cals farm human beings, Outsiders are expected 
to join in the custom, The custom is totally un
necessary but jealously maintained by the people
 T Belongings of a recent meal, An offworlder VIP 
due for the menu, A toxin that makes human 
flesh lethal to consumers
 P Hideous human abattoir, Extremely civilized 
The Terran Mandate retained its control over this 
world for much longer than usual, and the world 
may still consider itself a true inheritor of Mandate 
legitimacy. Most of these worlds have or had superior 
technology, but they may still labor under the burden 
of ancient restrictive tech or monitoring systems de
signed to prevent them from rebelling.
 E Deranged Mandate monitoring AI, Aspiring 
sector ruler, Demagogue preaching local supe
riority over “traitorous rebel worlds”.
 F Idealistic do-gooder local, Missionary for ad
vanced Mandate tech, Outsider seeking lost data 
from Mandate records
 C The monitoring system forces the locals to be
have in aggressive ways toward “rebel” worlds, 
The monitoring system severely hinders off
world use of their tech, The original colonists 
are all dead and have been replaced by outsiders 
who don’t understand all the details
 T Ultra-advanced pretech, Mandate military gear, 
Databank containing precious tech schematics
 P Faded Mandate offices still in use, Vault con
taining ancient pretech, Carefully-maintained 
monument to Mandate glory
 Megacorps
 The world is dominated by classic cyberpunk-esque 
megacorporations, each one far more important than 
the vestigial national remnants that encompass them. 
These megacorps are usually locked in a cold war, 
trading and dealing with each other even as they try 
to strike in deniable ways. An over-council of cor
porations usually acts to bring into line any that get 
excessively overt in their activities.
 E Megalomaniacal executive, Underling looking 
to use the PCs as catspaws, Ruthless mercenary 
who wants what the PCs have
 F Victim of megacorp scheming, Offworlder 
merchant in far over their head, Local reformer 
struggling to cope with megacorp indifference
 C The megacorps are the only source of some
thing vital to life on this world, An autonomous 
Mandate system acts to punish excessively overt 
violence, The megacorps are struggling against 
much more horrible national governments
 T Blackmail on a megacorp exec, Keycodes to criti
cal corp secrets, Proof of corp responsibility for a 
heinously unacceptable public atrocity, Data on 
a vital new product line coming out soon
 P A place plastered in megacorp ads, A public plaza 
restaurant, Funeral-home-cum-kitchen
 discreetly branded, Private corp military base
Minimal Contact
 146• World tagS
 Mercenaries
 The world is either famous for its mercenary bands 
or it is plagued by countless groups of condottieri 
in service to whatever magnate can afford to pay or 
bribe them adequately.
 E Amoral mercenary leader, Rich offworlder try
ing to buy rule of the world, Mercenary press 
gang chief forcing locals into service
 F Young and idealistic mercenary chief, Harried 
leader of enfeebled national army, Offworlder 
trying to hire help for a noble cause
 C The mercenaries are all that stand between the 
locals and a hungry imperial power, The mer
cenaries are remnants of a former official army, 
The mercenaries hardly ever actually fight as 
compared to taking bribes to walk away
 T Lost mercenary payroll shipment, Forbidden 
military tech, Proof of a band’s impending 
treachery against their employers
 P Shabby camp of undisciplined mercs, Burnt-out 
village occupied by mercenaries, Luxurious and 
exceedingly well-defended merc leader villa
 Misandry/Misogyny
 The culture on this world holds a particular gender in 
contempt. Members of that gender are not permitted 
positions of formal power, and may be restricted in 
their movements and activities. Some worlds may 
go so far as to scorn both traditional genders, using 
gengineering techniques to hybridize or alter con
ventional human biology.
 E Cultural fundamentalist, Cultural missionary to 
outworlders, Local rebel driven to pointless and 
meaningless violence
 F Oppressed native, Research scientist, Offworld 
emancipationist, Local reformer
 C The oppressed gender is restive against the cus
toms, The oppressed gender largely supports the 
customs, The customs relate to some physical 
quality of the world, The oppressed gender has 
had maltech gengineering done to “tame” them.
 T Aerosol reversion formula for undoing gengi
neered docility, Hidden history of the world, 
Pretech gengineering equipment
 P Shrine to the virtues of the favored gender, 
Security center for controlling the oppressed, 
Gengineering lab
 The locals refuse most contact with offworlders. 
Only a small, quarantined treaty port is provided for 
offworld trade, and ships can expect an exhaustive 
search for contraband. Local governments may be 
trying to keep the very existence of interstellar trade 
a secret from their populations, or they may simply 
consider offworlders too dangerous or repugnant to 
be allowed among the population.
 E Customs official, Xenophobic natives, Existing 
merchant who doesn’t like competition
 F Aspiring tourist, Anthropological researcher, 
Offworld thief, Religious missionary
 C The locals carry a disease harmless to them and 
lethal to outsiders, The locals hide dark purpos
es from offworlders, The locals have something 
desperately needed but won’t bring it into the 
treaty port
 T Contraband trade goods, Security perimeter 
codes, Black market local products
 P Treaty port bar, Black market zone, Secret 
smuggler landing site
 Night World
 The world is plunged into eternal darkness. The 
only life on this planet derives its energy from other 
sources, such as geothermal heat, extremely volatile 
chemical reactions in the planet’s soil, or light in a 
non-visible spectrum. Most flora and fauna is vora
ciously eager to consume other life.
 E Monstrous thing from the night, Offworlder 
finding the obscurity of the world convenient 
for dark purposes, Mad scientist experimenting 
with local life
 F Curious offworlder researcher, Hard-pressed 
colony leader, High priest of a sect that finds 
religious significance in the night
 C Daylight comes as a cataclysmic event at very 
long intervals, Light causes very dangerous reac
tions in native life or chemicals here, The locals 
have been gengineered to exist without sight
 T Rare chemicals created in the darkness, Light 
source usable on this world, Smuggler cache 
hidden here in ages past
 P Formlessly pitch-black wilderness, Sea without 
a sun, Location defined by sounds or smells
World tagS •147 
Nomads
 Most of the natives of this world are nomadic, usually 
following a traditional cycle of movement through 
the lands they possess. Promises of rich plunder or 
local environmental perils can force these groups to 
strike out against neighbors. Other groups are forced 
to move constantly due to unpredictable dangers that 
crop up on the planet.
 E Desperate tribal leader who needs what the PCs 
have, Ruthless raider chieftain, Leader seeking 
to weld the nomads into an army
 F Free-spirited young nomad, Dreamer imagining 
a stable life, Offworlder enamored of the life
 C An irresistibly lethal swarm of native life forces 
locals to move regularly, Ancient defense sys
tems destroy too-long-stationary communities, 
Local chemical patches require careful balancing 
of exposure times to avoid side effects
 T Cache of rare and precious resource, Plunder 
seized by a tribal raid, Tech that makes a place 
safe for long-term inhabitation
 P Temporary nomad camp, Oasis or resource re
serve, Trackless waste that kills the unprepared
 Oceanic World
 The world is entirely or almost entirely covered with 
liquid water. Habitations might be floating cities, or 
might cling precariously to the few rocky atolls jut
ting up from the waves, or are planted as bubbles on 
promontories deep beneath the stormy surface. Sur
vival depends on aquaculture. Planets with inedible 
alien life rely on gengineered Terran sea crops.
 E Pirate raider, Violent “salvager” gang, Tentacled 
sea monster
 F Daredevil fisherman, Sea hermit, Sapient native 
life
 C The liquid flux confuses grav engines too badly 
for them to function on this world, Sea is cor
rosive or toxic, The seas are wracked by regular 
storms
 T Buried pirate treasure, Location of enormous 
schools of fish, Pretech water purification equip
ment
 P The only island on the planet, Floating space
port, Deck of a storm-swept ship, Undersea 
bubble city
Outpost World
 148• World tagS
 Out of Contact
 The natives have been entirely out of contact with 
the greater galaxy for centuries or longer. Perhaps 
the original colonists were seeking to hide from the 
rest of the universe, or the Silence destroyed any 
means of communication. It may have been so long 
that human origins on other worlds have regressed 
into a topic for legends. The players might be on the 
first offworld ship to land since the First Wave of 
colonization a thousand years ago.
 E Fearful local ruler, Zealous native cleric, Sinister 
power that has kept the world isolated
 F Scheming native noble, Heretical theologian, 
UFO cultist native
 C Automatic defenses fire on ships that try to take 
off, The natives want to stay out of contact, The 
natives are highly vulnerable to offworld diseas
es, The native language is completely unlike any 
known to the group
 T Ancient pretech equipment, Terran relic brought 
from Earth, Logs of the original colonists
 P Long-lost colonial landing site, Court of the lo
cal ruler, Ancient defense battery controls
 Perimeter Agency
 Before the Silence, the Perimeter was a Terran-spon
sored organization charged with rooting out use of 
maltech, technology banned in human space as too 
dangerous for use or experimentation. Unbraked 
AIs, gengineered slave species, nanotech replicators, 
weapons of planetary destruction… the Perimeter 
hunted down experimenters with a great indiffer
ence to planetary laws. Most Perimeter Agencies 
collapsed during the Silence, but a few managed to 
hold on to their mission, though modern Perimeter 
agents often find more work as conventional spies.
 E Renegade Agency Director, Maltech researcher, 
Paranoid intelligence chief
 F Agent in need of help, Support staffer, “Unjustly” 
targeted researcher
 C The local Agency has gone rogue and now uses 
maltech, The Agency archives have been com
promised, The Agency has been targeted by a 
maltech-using organization, The Agency’s ex
istence is unknown to the locals
 T Agency maltech research archives, Agency pre
tech spec-ops gear, File of blackmail on local 
politicians
 P Interrogation room, Smoky bar, Maltech labo
The world is only a tiny outpost of human habitation 
planted by an offworld corporation or government. 
Perhaps the staff is there to serve as a refueling and 
repair stop for passing ships, or to oversee an au
tomated mining and refinery complex. They might 
be there to study ancient ruins, or simply serve as 
a listening and monitoring post for traffic through 
the system. The outpost is likely well-equipped with 
defenses against casual piracy.
 E Space-mad outpost staffer, Outpost commander 
who wants it to stay undiscovered, Undercover 
saboteur
 F Lonely staffer, Fixated researcher, Overtaxed 
maintenance chief
 C The alien ruin defense systems are waking up, 
Atmospheric disturbances trap the group inside 
the outpost for a month, Pirates raid the outpost, 
The crew have become converts to a strange set 
of beliefs
 T Alien relics, Vital scientific data, Secret corpo
rate exploitation plans
 P Grimy recreation room, Refueling station, The 
only building on the planet, A “starport” of 
swept bare rock.
 Pilgrimage Site
 The world is noted for an important spiritual or his
torical location, and might be the sector headquar
ters for a widespread religion or political movement. 
The site attracts wealthy pilgrims from throughout 
nearby space, and those with the money necessary to 
manage interstellar travel can be quite generous to 
the site and its keepers. The locals tend to be fiercely 
protective of the place and its reputation, and some 
places may forbid the entrance of those not suitably 
pious or devout.
 E Saboteur devoted to a rival belief, Bitter reform
er who resents the current leadership, Swindler 
conning the pilgrims
 F Protector of the holy site, Naive offworlder pil
grim, Outsider wanting to learn the sanctum’s 
inner secrets
 C The site is actually a fake, The site is run by 
corrupt and venal keepers, A natural disaster 
threatens the site
 T Ancient relic guarded at the site, Proof of the 
site’s inauthenticity, Precious offering from a 
pilgrim
 P Incense-scented sanctum, Teeming crowd of 
ratory, Secret Agency base
 pilgrims, Imposing holy structure
Pleasure World
 Police State
 World tagS •149 
This world provides delights either rare or impermis
sible elsewhere. Matchless local beauty, stunningly 
gengineered natives, a wide variety of local drugs, 
carnal pleasures unacceptable on other worlds, or 
some other rare delight is readily available here. Most 
worlds are fully aware of the value of their offerings, 
and the prices they demand can be in credits or in less 
tangible recompense.
 E Purveyor of evil delights, Local seeking to con
trol others with addictions, Offworlder exploiter 
of native resources
 F Tourist who’s in too deep, Native seeking a more 
meaningful life elsewhere, Offworld entertainer 
looking for training here
 C A deeply repugnant pleasure is offered here by a 
culture that sees nothing wrong with it, Certain 
pleasures here are dangerously addictive, The 
prices here can involve enslavement or death, 
The world has been seized and exploited by an 
imperial power
 T Forbidden drug, A contract for some unspeak
able payment, Powerful tech repurposed for 
hedonistic ends
 P Breathtaking natural feature, Artful but deca
dent salon, Grimy den of desperate vice
 Post-Scarcity
 The locals have maintained sufficient Mandate-era 
tech to be effectively post-scarcity in their economic 
structure. Everyone has all the necessities and most 
of the desires they can imagine. Conflict now exists 
over the apportionment of services and terrestrial 
space, since anything else can be had in abundance. 
Military goods and items of mass destruction may 
still be restricted, and there is probably some reason 
that the locals do not export their vast wealth.
 E Frenzied ideologue fighting over an idea, Par
anoid local fearing offworlder influence, Grim 
reformer seeking the destruction of the “enfee
bling” productive tech
 F Offworlder seeking something available only 
here, Local struggling to maintain the produc
tion tech, Native missionary seeking to bring 
abundance to other worlds
 C The tech causes serious side-effects on those 
who take advantage of it, The tech is breaking 
down, The population is growing too large, The 
tech produces only certain things in abundance
 T A cornucopia device, A rare commodity that 
The world is a totalitarian police state. Any sign of 
disloyalty to the planet’s rulers is punished severely, 
and suspicion riddles society. Some worlds might op
erate by Soviet-style informers and indoctrination, 
while more technically sophisticated worlds might 
rely on omnipresent cameras or braked AI “guardian 
angels”. Outworlders are apt to be treated as a nec
essary evil at best, and “disappeared” if they become 
troublesome.
 E Secret police chief, Scapegoating official, 
Treacherous native informer
 F Rebel leader, Offworld agitator, Imprisoned vic
tim, Crime boss
 C The natives largely believe in the righteousness 
of the state, The police state is automated and 
its “rulers” can’t shut it off, The leaders foment 
a pogrom against “offworlder spies”.
 T List of police informers, Wealth taken from “en
emies of the state”, Dear Leader’s private stash
 P Military parade, Gulag, Gray concrete housing 
block, Surveillance center
 Preceptor Archive
 The Preceptors of the Great Archive were a pre-Si
lence organization devoted to ensuring the dissem
ination of human culture, history, and basic tech
nology to frontier worlds that risked losing this 
information during the human expansion. Most 
frontier planets had an Archive where natives could 
learn useful technical skills in addition to human his
tory and art. Those Archives that managed to survive 
the Silence now strive to send their missionaries of 
knowledge to new worlds in need of their lore.
 E Luddite native, Offworld merchant who wants 
the natives kept ignorant, Religious zealot, Cor
rupted First Speaker who wants to keep a mo
nopoly on learning
 F Preceptor Adept missionary, Offworld scholar, 
Reluctant student, Roving Preceptor Adept
 C The local Archive has taken a very religious and 
mystical attitude toward their teaching, The Ar
chive has maintained some replicable pretech 
science, The Archive has been corrupted and 
their teaching is incorrect
 T Lost Archive database, Ancient pretech teaching 
cannot be duplicated, Contract for services
 P Tiny but richly-appointed private quarters, Mar
equipment, Hidden cache of unacceptable tech
 P Archive lecture hall, Experimental laboratory, 
ket for services, Hushed non-duped art salon
 Student-local riot
Primitive Aliens
 150• World tagS
 Pretech Cultists
 The capacities of human science before the Silence 
vastly outmatch the technology available since the 
Scream. The Jump Gates alone were capable of cross
ing hundreds of light years in a moment, and they 
were just one example of the results won by blending 
psychic artifice with pretech science. Some worlds 
outright worship the artifacts of their ancestors, see
ing in them the work of more enlightened and perfect 
humanity. These cultists may or may not understand 
the operation or replication of these devices, but they 
seek and guard them jealously.
 E Cult leader, Artifact supplier, Pretech smuggler
 F Offworld scientist, Robbed collector, Cult her
etic
 C The cultists can actually replicate certain forms 
of pretech, The cultists abhor use of the devices 
as “presumption on the holy”, The cultists mis
take the party’s belongings for pretech
 T Pretech artifacts both functional and broken, 
Religious-jargon laced pretech replication tech
niques, Waylaid payment for pretech artifacts
 P Shrine to nonfunctional pretech, Smuggler’s den, 
Public procession showing a prized artifact
 Prison Planet
 This planet is or was intended as a prison. Some such 
prisons were meant for specific malefactors of the 
Terran Mandate, while others were to contain en
tire “dangerous” ethnic groups or alien races. Some 
may still have warden AIs or automatic systems to 
prevent any unauthorized person from leaving, and 
any authorization permits have long since expired.
 E Crazed warden AI, Brutal heir to gang leader
ship, Offworlder who’s somehow acquired war
den powers and exploits the locals
 F Innocent local born here, Native technician 
forced to maintain the very tech that imprisons 
them, Offworlder trapped here by accident
 C Departure permits are a precious currency, The 
prison industry still makes valuable pretech de
vices, Gangs have metamorphosed into govern
ments, The local nobility descended from the 
prison staff
 T A pass to get offworld, A key to bypass ancient 
security devices, Contraband forbidden by the 
security scanners
 P Mandate-era prison block converted to gov
ernment building, Industrial facility manned 
by mandatory numbers of prisoners, Makeshift 
shop where contraband is assembled
 The world is populated by a large number of sapient 
aliens that have yet to develop advanced technology. 
The human colonists may have a friendly or hostile 
relationship with the aliens, but a certain intrinsic 
tension is likely. Small human colonies might have 
been enslaved or otherwise subjugated.
 E Hostile alien chief, Human firebrand, Danger
ous local predator, Alien religious zealot
 F Colonist leader, Peace-faction alien chief, Plan
etary frontiersman, Xenoresearcher
 C The alien numbers are huge and can overwhelm 
the humans whenever they so choose, One 
group is trying to use the other to kill their polit
ical opponents, The aliens are incomprehensibly 
strange, One side commits an atrocity
 T Alien religious icon, Ancient alien-human treaty, 
Alien technology
 P Alien village, Fortified human settlement, Mas
sacre site
 Psionics Academy
 This world is one of the few that have managed to 
redevelop the basics of psychic training. Without 
this education, a potential psychic is doomed to ei
ther madness or death unless they refrain from using 
their abilities. Psionic academies are rare enough that 
offworlders are often sent there to study by wealthy 
patrons. The secrets of psychic mentorship, the 
protocols and techniques that allow a psychic to 
successfully train another, are carefully guarded at 
these academies. Most are closely affiliated with the 
planetary government.
 E Corrupt psychic instructor, Renegade student, 
Mad psychic researcher, Resentful townie
 F Offworld researcher, Aspiring student, Wealthy 
tourist
 C The academy curriculum kills a significant per
centage of students, The faculty use students as 
research subjects, The students are indoctrinat
ed as sleeper agents, The local natives hate the 
academy, The academy is part of a religion.
 T Secretly developed psitech, A runaway psychic 
mentor, Psychic research prize
 P Training grounds, Experimental laboratory, 
School library, Campus hangout
Psionics Fear
 Psionics Worship
 World tagS •151 
The locals are terrified of psychics. Perhaps their 
history is studded with feral psychics who went on 
murderous rampages, or perhaps they simply nurse 
an unreasoning terror of those “mutant freaks”. Psy
chics demonstrate their powers at risk of their lives.
 E Mental purity investigator, Suspicious zealot, 
Witch-finder
 F Hidden psychic, Offworlder psychic trapped 
here, Offworld educator
 C Psychic potential is much more common here, 
Some tech is mistaken as psitech, Natives believe 
certain rituals and customs can protect them 
from psychic powers
 T Hidden psitech cache, Possessions of convicted 
psychics, Reward for turning in a psychic
 P Inquisitorial chamber, Lynching site, Museum 
of psychic atrocities
 Quarantined World
 The world is under a quarantine, and space travel 
to and from it is strictly forbidden. This may be en
forced by massive ground batteries that burn any 
interlopers from the planet’s sky, or it may be that a 
neighboring world runs a persistent blockade.
 E Defense installation commander, Suspicious pa
trol leader, Crazed asteroid hermit
 F Relative of a person trapped on the world, Hu
manitarian relief official, Treasure hunter
 C The natives want to remain isolated, The quar
antine is enforced by an ancient alien installa
tion, The world is rife with maltech abomina
tions, The blockade is meant to starve everyone 
on the barren world.
 T Defense grid key, Bribe for getting someone out, 
Abandoned alien tech
 P Bridge of a blockading ship, Defense installation 
control room, Refugee camp
 These natives view psionic powers as a visible gift of 
god or sign of superiority. If the world has a function
al psychic training academy, psychics occupy almost 
all major positions of power and are considered the 
natural and proper rulers of the world. If the world 
lacks training facilities, it is likely a hodgepodge of 
demented cults, with each one dedicated to a margin
ally-coherent feral prophet and their psychopathic 
ravings.
 E Psychic inquisitor, Haughty mind-noble, Psy
chic slaver, Feral prophet
 F Offworlder psychic researcher, Native rebel, 
Offworld employer seeking psychics
 C The psychic training is imperfect, and the psy
chics all show significant mental illness, The 
psychics have developed a unique discipline, 
The will of a psychic is law, Psychics in the party 
are forcibly kidnapped for “enlightening”.
 T Ancient psitech, Valuable psychic research re
cords, Permission for psychic training
 P Psitech-imbued council chamber, Temple to the 
mind, Sanitarium-prison for feral psychics
 Radioactive World
 Whether due to a legacy of atomic warfare unhin
dered by nuke snuffers or a simple profusion of 
radioactive elements, this world glows in the dark. 
Even heavy vacc suits can filter only so much of the 
radiation, and most natives suffer a wide variety of 
cancers, mutations and other illnesses without the 
protection of advanced medical treatments.
 E Bitter mutant, Relic warlord, Desperate would
be escapee
 F Reckless prospector, Offworld scavenger, Bio
genetic variety seeker
 C The radioactivity is steadily growing worse, The 
planet’s medical resources break down, The 
radioactivity has inexplicable effects on living 
creatures, The radioactivity is the product of a 
malfunctioning pretech manufactory.
 T Ancient atomic weaponry, Pretech anti-radioac
tivity drugs, Untainted water supply
 P Mutant-infested ruins, Scorched glass plain, 
Wilderness of bizarre native life, Glowing bar
rens
152• World tagS
 Refugees
 The world teems with refugees, either exiles from an
other planet who managed to get here, or the human 
detritus of some local conflict that have fled to the 
remaining stable states. The natives usually regard 
the refugees with hostility, an attitude returned by 
many among their unwilling guests.
 E Xenophobic native leader, Refugee chief aspir
ing to seize the host nation, Politician seeking to 
use the refugees as a weapon
 F Sympathetic refugee waif, Local hard-pressed by 
refugee gangs, Clergy seeking peace
 C The xenophobes are right that the refugees are 
taking over, The refugees are right that the xe
nophobes want them out or dead, Both are right, 
Outside powers are using the refugees to desta
bilize an enemy government, Refugee and local 
cultures are extremely incompatible
 T Treasures brought out by fleeing refugees, Cit
izenship papers, Cache of vital refugee supplies, 
Hidden arms for terrorists
 P Hopeless refugee camp, City swarming with 
confused strangers, Festival full of angry locals
 Regional Hegemon
 This world has the technological sophistication, nat
ural resources, and determined polity necessary to be 
a regional hegemon for the sector. Nearby worlds are 
likely either directly subservient to it or tack carefully 
to avoid its anger. It may even be the capital of a small 
stellar empire.
 E Ambitious general, Colonial official, Contemp
tuous noble
 F Diplomat, Offworld ambassador, Foreign spy
 C The hegemon’s influence is all that’s keeping a 
murderous war from breaking out on nearby 
worlds, The hegemon is decaying and losing its 
control, The government is riddled with spies, 
The hegemon is genuinely benign
 T Diplomatic carte blanche, Deed to an offworld 
estate, Foreign aid grant
 P Palace or seat of government, Salon teeming 
with spies, Protest rally, Military base
 Restrictive Laws
 A myriad of laws, customs, and rules constrain the 
inhabitants of this world, and even acts that are com
pletely permissible elsewhere are punished severely 
here. The locals may provide lists of these laws to 
offworlders, but few non-natives can hope to master 
all the important intricacies.
 E Law enforcement officer, Outraged native, Na
tive lawyer specializing in peeling offworlders, 
Paid snitch
 F Frustrated offworlder, Repressed native, Re
forming crusader
 C The laws change regularly in patterns only na
tives understand, The laws forbid some action 
vital to the party, The laws forbid the simple 
existence of some party members, The laws are 
secret to offworlders
 T Complete legal codex, Writ of diplomatic im
munity, Fine collection vault contents
 P Courtroom, Mob scene of outraged locals, Leg
islative chamber, Police station
 Revanchists
 The locals formerly owned another world, or a ma
jor nation on the planet formerly owned an addi
tional region of land. Something happened to take 
away this control or drive out the former rulers, and 
they’ve never forgotten it. The locals are obsessed 
with reclaiming their lost lands, and will allow no 
questions of practicality to interfere with their cause.
 E Demagogue whipping the locals on to a hope
less war, Politician seeking to use the resentment 
for their own ends, Local convinced the PCs are 
agents of the “thieving” power, Refugee from 
the land bitterly demanding it be reclaimed
 F Realist local clergy seeking peace, Politician 
trying to calm the public, Third-party diplomat 
trying to stamp out the fire
 C The revanchists’ claim is completely just and rea
sonable, The land is now occupied entirely by 
heirs of the conquerors, Both sides have seized 
lands the other thinks are theirs
 T Stock of vital resource produced by the taken 
land, Relic carried out of it, Proof that the land 
claim is justified or unjustified
 P Memorial monument to the loss, Cemetery of 
those who died in the conquest, Public ceremo
ny commemorating the disaster
Revolutionaries
 Rigid Culture
 World tagS •153 
The world is convulsed by one or more bands of rev
olutionaries, with some nations perhaps in the grip of 
a current revolution. Most of these upheavals can be 
expected only to change the general flavor of prob
lems in the polity, but the process of getting there 
usually produces a tremendous amount of suffering.
 E Blood-drenched revolutionary leader, Blood
drenched secret police chief, Hostile foreign 
agent seeking further turmoil
 F Sympathetic victim accused of revolutionary 
sympathies or government collaboration, Revo
lutionary or state agent who now repents, Agent 
of a neutral power that wants peace
 C The revolutionaries actually do seem likely to 
put in better rulers, The revolutionaries are 
client groups that got out of hand, The revolu
tionaries are clearly much worse than the gov
ernment, The revolutionaries have no real ideals 
beyond power and merely pretend to ideology
 T List of secret revolutionary sympathizers, Proof 
of rebel hypocrisy, Confiscated wealth
 P Festival that explodes into violence, Heavi
ly-fortified police station, Revolutionary base 
hidden in the wilderness
 Rising Hegemon
 This world is not yet a dominant power in the sec
tor, but it’s well on its way there. Whether through 
newly-blossoming economic, military, or cultural 
power, they’re extending their influence over their 
neighbors and forging new arrangements between 
their government and the rulers of nearby worlds.
 E Jingoistic supremacist, Official bent on glorious 
success, Foreign agent saboteur
 F Friendly emissary to the benighted, Hardscrab
ble local turned great success, Foreign visitor 
seeking contacts or knowledge
 C They’re only strong because their neighbors 
have been weakened, Their success is based on 
a fluke resource or pretech find, They bitterly 
resent their neighbors as former oppressors
 T Tribute shipment, Factory or barracks emblem
atic of their power source, Tech or data that will 
deal a blow to their rise
 P Rustic town being hurled into prosperity, Gov
ernment building being expanded, Starport 
struggling under the flow of new ships
 The local culture is extremely rigid. Certain forms of 
behavior and belief are absolutely mandated, and any 
deviation from these principles is punished, or else 
society may be strongly stratified by birth with lim
ited prospects for change. Anything which threatens 
the existing social order is feared and shunned.
 E Rigid reactionary, Wary ruler, Regime ideo
logue, Offended potentate
 F Revolutionary agitator, Ambitious peasant, 
Frustrated merchant
 C The cultural patterns are enforced by technolog
ical aids, The culture is run by a secret cabal of 
manipulators, The culture has explicit religious 
sanction, The culture evolved due to important 
necessities that have since been forgotten
 T Precious traditional regalia, Peasant tribute, Op
ulent treasures of the ruling class
 P Time-worn palace, Low-caste slums, Bandit den, 
Reformist temple
 Ritual Combat
 The locals favor some form of stylized combat to 
resolve disputes, provide entertainment, or settle 
religious differences. This combat is probably not 
normally lethal unless it’s reserved for a specific dis
posable class of slaves or professionals. Some combat 
may involve mastery of esoteric weapons and com
plex arenas, while other forms might require nothing 
more than a declaration in the street and a drawn gun.
 E Bloodthirsty local champion, Ambitious glad
iator stable owner, Xenophobic master fighter
 F Peace-minded foreign missionary, Temperate 
defender of the weak, Local eager to learn of 
offworld fighting styles
 C The required weapons are strange pretech arti
facts, Certain classes are forbidden from fighting 
and require champions, Loss doesn’t mean death 
but it does mean ritual scarring or property loss
 T Magnificent weapon, Secret book of martial 
techniques, Token signifying immunity to ritual 
combat challenges, Prize won in bloody battle 
P Area full of cheering spectators, Dusty street 
outside a saloon, Memorial for fallen warriors
154• World tagS
 Robots
 The world has a great many robots on it. Most bots 
are going to be non-sentient expert systems, though 
an AI with enough computing resources can con
trol many bots at once, and some worlds may have 
developed VIs to a degree that individual bots can 
seem (or be) sentient. Some worlds might even be 
ruled by metal overlords, ones which do not need to 
be sentient so long as they have overwhelming force.
 E Hostile robot master, Robot greedy to seize off
world tech, Robot fallen in love with the PC’s 
ship, Oligarch whose factories build robots
 F Data-seeking robot, Plucky young robot tech, 
Local being pushed out of a job by robots
 C The robots are only partially controlled, The 
robots are salvaged and originally meant for 
a much darker use, The robots require a rare 
material that the locals fight over, The robots 
require the planet’s specific infrastructure so 
cannot be exported
 T Prototype robot, Secret robot override codes, 
Vast cache of robot-made goods, Robot-destroy
ing pretech weapon
 P Humming robotic factory, Stark robotic “bar
racks”, House crowded with robot servants and 
only one human owner
 Seagoing Cities
 Either the world is entirely water or else the land is 
simply too dangerous for most humans. Human set
tlement on this world consists of a number of float
ing cities that follow the currents and the fish. These 
city-ships might have been purpose-built for their 
task, or they could be jury-rigged conglomerations 
of ships and structures thrown together when the 
need for seagoing life become apparent to the locals.
 E Pirate city lord, Mer-human raider chieftain, 
Hostile landsman noble, Enemy city saboteur
 F City navigator, Scout captain, Curious mer-hu
man, Hard-pressed ship-city engineer
 C The seas are not water, The fish schools have 
vanished and the city faces starvation, Terrible 
storms drive the city into the glacial regions, 
Suicide ships ram the city’s hull
 T Giant pearls with mysterious chemical proper
ties, Buried treasure, Vital repair materials
 P Bridge of the city, Storm-tossed sea, A bridge 
fashioned of many small boats.
Sealed Menace
 Secret Masters
 World tagS •155 
Something on this planet has the potential to create 
enormous havoc for the inhabitants if it is not kept 
safely contained by its keepers. Whether a massive 
seismic fault line suppressed by pretech terraforming 
technology, a disease that has to be quarantined with
in hours of discovery, or an ancient alien relic that 
requires regular upkeep in order to prevent planetary 
catastrophe, the menace is a constant shadow on the 
fearful populace.
 E Hostile outsider bent on freeing the menace, 
Misguided fool who thinks he can use it, Reck
less researcher who thinks he can fix it
 F Keeper of the menace, Student of its nature, Vic
tim of the menace
 C The menace would bring great wealth along 
with destruction, The menace is intelligent, The 
natives don’t all believe in the menace
 T A key to unlock the menace, A precious byprod
uct of the menace, The secret of the menace’s 
true nature
 P Guarded fortress containing the menace, Mon
itoring station, Scene of a prior outbreak of the 
menace
 Sectarians
 The world is torn by violent disagreement between 
sectarians of a particular faith. Each views the other 
as a damnable heresy in need of extirpation. Local 
government may be able to keep open war from 
breaking out, but the poisonous hatred divides com
munities. The nature of the faith may be religious, or 
it may be based on some secular ideology.
 E Paranoid believer, Native convinced the party 
is working for the other side, Absolutist ruler
 F Reformist clergy, Local peacekeeping official, 
Offworld missionary, Exhausted ruler
 C The conflict has more than two sides, The sec
tarians hate each other for multiple reasons, The 
sectarians must cooperate or else life on this 
world is imperiled, The sectarians hate outsiders 
more than they hate each other, The differences 
in sects are incomprehensible to an outsider
 T Ancient holy book, Incontrovertible proof, Of
fering to a local holy man
 P Sectarian battlefield, Crusading temple, Philos
opher’s salon, Bitterly divided village
 The world is actually run by a hidden cabal, acting 
through their catspaws in the visible government. 
For one reason or another, this group finds it im
perative that they not be identified by outsiders, and 
in some cases even the planet’s own government may 
not realize that they’re actually being manipulated by 
hidden masters.
 E An agent of the cabal, Government official who 
wants no questions asked, Willfully blinded local
 F Paranoid conspiracy theorist, Machiavellian 
gamesman within the cabal, Interstellar inves
tigator
 C The secret masters have a benign reason 
for wanting secrecy, The cabal fights open
ly amongst itself, The cabal is recruiting new 
members
 T A dossier of secrets on a government official, A 
briefcase of unmarked credit notes, The identity 
of a cabal member
 P Smoke-filled room, Shadowy alleyway, Secret 
underground bunker
 Seismic Instability
 The local land masses are remarkably unstable, and 
regular earthquakes rack the surface. Local construc
tion is either advanced enough to sway and move 
with the vibrations or primitive enough that it is 
easily rebuilt. Severe volcanic activity may be part 
of the instability.
 E Earthquake cultist, Hermit seismologist, Bur
rowing native life form, Earthquake-inducing 
saboteur
 F Experimental construction firm owner, Adven
turous volcanologist, Geothermal prospector
 C The earthquakes are caused by malfunctioning 
pretech terraformers, They’re caused by alien 
technology, They’re restrained by alien tech
nology that is being plundered by offworlders, 
The earthquakes are used to generate enormous 
amounts of energy.
 T Earthquake generator, Earthquake suppressor, 
Mineral formed at the core of the world, Earth
quake-proof building schematics
 P Volcanic caldera, Village during an earthquake, 
Mud slide, Earthquake opening superheated 
steam fissures
Societal Despair
 156• World tagS
 Shackled World
 This world is being systematically contained by an 
outside power. Some ancient autonomous defense 
grid, robot law enforcement, alien artifact, or other 
force is preventing the locals from developing certain 
technology, or using certain devices, or perhaps from 
developing interstellar flight. This limit may or may 
not apply to offworlders; in the former case, the PCs 
may have to figure out a way to beat the shackles 
simply to escape the world.
 E Passionless jailer-AI, Paranoid military grid AI, 
Robot overlord, Enigmatic alien master
 F Struggling local researcher, Offworlder trapped 
here, Scientist with a plan to break the chains
 C The shackles come off for certain brief windows 
of time, The locals think the shackles are im
posed by God, An outside power greatly profits 
from the shackles, The rulers are exempt from 
the shackles
 T Keycode to bypass the shackle, Tech shielded 
from the shackle, Exportable version of the 
shackle that can affect other worlds
 P Grim high-tech control center, Factory full of 
workaround tech, Temple to the power or entity 
that imposed the shackle
 Sole Supplier
 Some extremely important resource is exported from 
this world and this world alone. It’s unlikely that the 
substance is critical for building spike drives unless 
this world is also the first to begin interstellar flight, 
but it may be critical to other high-tech processes or 
devices. The locals make a large amount of money off 
this trade and control of it is of critical importance to 
the planet’s rulers, and potentially to outside powers.
 E Resource oligarch, Ruthless smuggler, Re
source-controlling warlord, Foreign agent seek
ing to subvert local government
 F Doughty resource miner, Researcher trying to 
synthesize the stuff, Small-scale resource pro
ducer, Harried starport trade overseer
 C The substance is slow poison to process, The 
substance is created by hostile alien natives, 
The substance is very easy to smuggle in usable 
amounts, Only the natives have the genes or 
tech to extract it effectively
 T Cache of processed resource, Trade permit to 
buy a load of it, A shipment of nigh-undetect
ably fake substance
 P Bustling resource extraction site, Opulent palace 
built with resource money, Lazy town square 
The world’s dominant society has lost faith in itself. 
Whether through some all-consuming war, great 
catastrophe, overwhelming outside culture, or reli
gious collapse, the natives no longer believe in their 
old values, and search desperately for something new. 
Fierce conflict often exists between the last believers 
in the old dispensation and the nihilistic or searching 
disciples of the new age.
 E Zealot who blames outsiders for the decay, Ni
hilistic warlord, Offworlder looking to exploit 
the local despair
 F Struggling messenger of a new way, Valiant par
agon of a fading tradition, Local going through 
the motions of serving a now-irrelevant role
 C A massive war discredited all the old values, Out
side powers are working to erode societal con
fidence for their own benefit, A local power is 
profiting greatly from the despair, The old ways 
were meant to aid survival on this world and 
their passing is causing many new woes
 T Relic that would inspire a renaissance, Art that 
would inspire new ideas, Priceless artifact of a 
now-scorned belief
 P Empty temple, Crowded den of obliviating vice, 
Smoky hall full of frantic speakers
 Taboo Treasure
 The natives here produce something that is both 
fabulously valuable and strictly forbidden elsewhere 
in the sector. It may be a lethally addictive drug, for
bidden gengineering tech, vat-grown “perfect slaves”, 
or a useful substance that can only be made through 
excruciating human suffering. This treasure is free
ly traded on the world, but bringing it elsewhere is 
usually an invitation to a long prison stay or worse.
 E Maker of a vile commodity, Smuggler for a pow
erful offworlder, Depraved offworlder here for 
“fun”, Local warlord who controls the treasure
 F Reformer seeking to end its use, Innovator try
ing to repurpose the treasure in innocent ways, 
Wretched addict unwillingly prey to the treasure
 C The treasure is extremely hard to smuggle, Its 
use visibly marks a user, The natives consider it 
for their personal use only, 
T Load of the forbidden good, Smuggling tech that 
could hide the good perfectly, Blackmail data on 
offworld buyers of the good
 P Den where the good is used, Market selling the 
good to locals and a few outsiders, Factory or 
processing area where the good is created
 where everyone lives on resource payments
Terraform Failure
 Theocracy
 World tagS •157 
This world was marginal for human habitation when 
it was discovered, but the Mandate or the early gov
ernment put in pretech terraforming engines to cor
rect its more extreme qualities. The terraforming did 
not entirely work, either failing of its own or suffer
ing the destruction of the engines during the Silence. 
The natives are only partly adapted to the world’s 
current state, and struggle with the environment.
 E Brutal ruler who cares only for their people, 
Offworlder trying to loot the damaged engines, 
Warlord trying to seize limited habitable land
 F Local trying to fix the engines, Offworlder stu
The planet is ruled by the priesthood of the predom
inant religion or ideology. The rest of the locals may 
or may not be terribly pious, but the clergy have the 
necessary military strength, popular support or con
trol of resources to maintain their rule. Alternative 
faiths or incompatible ideologies are likely to be both 
illegal and socially unacceptable.
 E Decadent priest-ruler, Zealous inquisitor, Re
lentless proselytizer, True Believer
 F Heretic, Offworld theologian, Atheistic mer
chant, Desperate commoner
 C The theocracy actually works well, The theoc
dent of the engines, World-wise native survivor
 C The engines produced too much of something 
instead of too little, The engines were hijacked 
by aliens with different preferences, It was dis
covered that an Earth-like environment would 
eventually cause a catastrophic disaster
 T Parts to repair or restore the engines, Lootable 
pretech fragments, Valuable local tech devised 
to cope with the world
 P Zone of tolerable gravity or temperature, Native 
settlement built to cope with the environment, 
Massive ruined terraforming engine
 Tomb World
 Tomb worlds are planets that were once inhabited 
by humans before the Silence. The sudden collapse 
of the jump gate network and the inability to bring 
in the massive food supplies required by the planet 
resulted in starvation, warfare, and death. Most tomb 
worlds are naturally hostile to human habitation and 
could not raise sufficient crops to maintain life. The 
few hydroponic facilities were usually destroyed in 
the fighting, and all that is left now are ruins, bones, 
and silence.
 E Demented survivor tribe chieftain, Avaricious 
scavenger, Automated defense system, Native 
predator
 F Scavenger Fleet captain, Archaeologist, Salvag
ing historian, Xenophilic native survivor
 C The ruins are full of booby-traps left by the final 
inhabitants, The world’s atmosphere quickly de
grades anything in an opened building, A hand
ful of desperate natives survived the Silence, The 
structures are unstable and collapsing
 T Lost pretech equipment, Tech caches, Stores of 
unused munitions, Ancient historical data
 P Crumbling hive-city, City square carpeted in 
bones, Ruined hydroponic facility, Cannibal 
racy is decadent and hated by the common folk, 
The theocracy is divided into mutually hostile 
sects, The theocracy is led by aliens
 T Precious holy text, Martyr’s bones, Secret church 
records, Ancient church treasures
 P Glorious temple, Austere monastery, Academy 
for ideological indoctrination, Decadent plea
sure-cathedral
 Trade Hub
 This world is a major crossroads for local interstellar 
trade. It is well-positioned at the nexus of several 
short-drill trade routes, and has facilities for easy 
transfer of valuable cargoes and the fueling and re
pairing of starships. The natives are accustomed to 
outsiders, and a polyglot mass of people from every 
nearby world can be found trading here.
 E Cheating merchant, Thieving dockworker, 
Commercial spy, Corrupt customs official
 F Rich tourist, Hardscrabble free trader, Merchant 
prince in need of catspaws, Friendly spaceport 
urchin
 C An outworlder faction schemes to seize the trade 
hub, Saboteurs seek to blow up a rival’s ware
houses, Enemies are blockading the trade routes, 
Pirates lace the hub with spies
 T Voucher for a warehouse’s contents, Insider 
trading information, Case of precious offworld 
pharmaceuticals, Box of legitimate tax stamps 
indicating customs dues have been paid.
 P Raucous bazaar, Elegant restaurant, Spaceport 
teeming with activity, Foggy street lined with 
warehouses
 tribe’s lair, Dead orbital jump gate
Unbraked AI
 158• World tagS
 Tyranny
 The local government is brutal and indifferent to the 
will of the people. Laws may or may not exist, but 
the only one that matters is the whim of the rulers 
on any given day. Their minions swagger through 
the streets while the common folk live in terror of 
their appetites. The only people who stay wealthy are 
friends and servants of the ruling class.
 E Debauched autocrat, Sneering bully-boy, Soul
less government official, Occupying army officer
 F Conspiring rebel, Oppressed merchant, Desper
ate peasant, Inspiring religious leader
 C The tyrant rules with vastly superior technology, 
The tyrant is a figurehead for a cabal of powerful 
men and women, The people are resigned to 
their suffering, The tyrant is hostile to “meddle
some outworlders”.
 T Plundered wealth, Beautiful toys of the elite, Re
galia of rulership
 P Impoverished village, Protest rally massacre, 
Decadent palace, Religious hospital for the in
digent
 Urbanized Surface
 The world’s land area is covered with buildings that 
extend downward for multiple levels. Such worlds 
either have a population in the trillions, extremely 
little land area, or are largely-abandoned due to some 
past catastrophe. Agriculture and resource extraction 
are part of the urban complex, and there may be an 
advanced maintenance system that may not be en
tirely under the control of present natives.
 E Maintenance AI that hates outsiders, Tyrant of 
a habitation block, Deep-dwelling prophet who 
considers “the sky” a blasphemy to be quelled
 F Local yearning for wild spaces, Grubby urchin 
of the underlevels, Harried engineer trying to 
maintain ancient works, Grizzled hab cop
 C The urban blocks are needed to survive the en
vironment, The blocks were part of an ancient 
device of world-spanning size, The blocks re
quire constant maintenance to avoid dangerous 
types of decay
 T Massively efficient power source, Map of the 
secret ways of a zone, Passkey into restricted 
hab block areas
 P Giant hab block now devoid of inhabitants, 
Chemical-reeking underway, Seawater mine 
Artificial intelligences are costly and difficult to cre
ate, requiring a careful sequence of “growth stages” 
in order to bring them to sentience before artificial 
limits on cognition speed and learning development 
are installed. These “brakes” prevent runaway cogni
tion metastasis. This world has an “unbraked AI” on 
it, probably with a witting or unwitting corps of ser
vants. Unbraked AIs are quite insane, but they learn 
and reason with a speed impossible for humans, and 
can demonstrate a truly distressing subtlety.
 E AI Cultist, Maltech researcher, Government of
ficial dependent on the AI
 F Perimeter agent, AI researcher, Braked AI
 C The AI’s presence is unknown to the locals, The 
locals depend on the AI for some vital service, 
The AI appears to be harmless, The AI has fixat
ed on the group’s ship’s computer, The AI wants 
transport offworld
 T The room-sized AI core itself, Maltech research 
files, Perfectly tabulated blackmail on govern
ment officials, Pretech computer circuitry
 P Municipal computing banks, Cult compound, 
Repair center, Ancient hardcopy library
 Utopia
 Natural and social conditions on this world have 
made it a paradise for its inhabitants, a genuine uto
pia of happiness and fulfillment. This is normally 
the result of drastic human engineering, including 
brain-gelding, neurochemical control, personality 
curbs, or complete “humanity” redefinitions. Even so, 
the natives are extremely happy with their lot, and 
may wish to extend that joy to poor, sad outsiders.
 E Compassionate neurotherapist, Proselytizing 
native missionary to outsiders, Brutal tyrant 
who rules through inexorable happiness
 F Deranged malcontent, Bloody-handed guerrilla 
leader of a rebellion of madmen, Outsider trying 
to find a way to reverse the utopian changes
 C The natives really are deeply and contentedly 
happy with their altered lot, The utopia pro
duces something that attracts others, The utopia 
works on converting outsiders through persua
sion and generosity, The utopia involves some 
sacrifice that’s horrifying to non-members
 T Portable device that applies the utopian change, 
Plans for a device that would destroy the utopia, 
Goods created joyfully by the locals
 P Plaza full of altered humans, Social ritual site, 
full of salt and massive flowing channels
 Secret office where “normal” humans rule
Warlords
 Xenophiles
 World tagS •159 
The world is plagued by warlords. Numerous pow
erful men and women control private armies suf
ficiently strong to cow whatever local government 
may exist. On the lands they claim, their word is law. 
Most spend their time oppressing their own subjects 
and murderously pillaging those of their neighbors. 
Most like to wrap themselves in the mantle of ide
ology, religious fervor, or an ostensibly legitimate 
right to rule.
 E Warlord, Avaricious lieutenant, Expensive as
sassin, Aspiring minion
 F Vengeful commoner, Government military of
ficer, Humanitarian aid official, Village priest
 C The warlords are willing to cooperate to fight 
mutual threats, The warlords favor specific re
ligions or races over others, The warlords are 
using substantially more sophisticated tech than 
others, Some of the warlords are better rulers 
than the government
 T Weapons cache, Buried plunder, A warlord’s 
personal battle harness, Captured merchant 
shipping
 P Gory battlefield, Burnt-out village, Barbaric 
warlord palace, Squalid refugee camp
 Xenophobes
 The natives are intensely averse to dealings with out
worlders. Whether through cultural revulsion, fear 
of tech contamination, or a genuine immunodefi
ciency, the locals shun foreigners from offworld and 
refuse to have anything to do with them beyond the 
bare necessities of contact. Trade may or may not 
exist on this world, but if it does, it is almost certainly 
conducted by a caste of untouchables and outcasts.
 E Revulsed local ruler, Native convinced some 
wrong was done to him, Cynical demagogue
 F Curious native, Exiled former ruler, Local des
perately seeking outworlder help
 C The natives are symptomless carriers of a con
tagious and dangerous disease, The natives are 
exceptionally vulnerable to offworld diseases, 
The natives require elaborate purification ritu
als after speaking to an offworlder or touching 
them, The local ruler has forbidden any mercan
tile dealings with outworlders
 T Jealously-guarded precious relic, Local product 
under export ban, Esoteric local technology
 P Sealed treaty port, Public ritual not open to out
siders, Outcaste slum home
 The natives of this world are fast friends with a par
ticular alien race. The aliens may have saved the plan
et at some point in the past, or awed the locals with 
superior tech or impressive cultural qualities. The 
aliens might even be the ruling class on the planet.
 E Offworld xenophobe, Suspicious alien leader, 
Xenocultural imperialist
 F Benevolent alien, Native malcontent, Gone-na
tive offworlder
 C The enthusiasm is due to alien psionics or tech, 
The enthusiasm is based on a lie, The aliens 
strongly dislike their “groupies”, The aliens feel 
obliged to rule humanity for its own good, Hu
mans badly misunderstand the aliens
 T Hybrid alien-human tech, Exotic alien crafts, 
Sophisticated xenolinguistic and xenocultural 
research data
 P Alien district, Alien-influenced human home, 
Cultural festival celebrating alien artist
 Zombies
 This menace may not take the form of shambling 
corpses, but some disease, alien artifact, or crazed 
local practice produces men and women with hab
its similar to those of murderous cannibal undead. 
These outbreaks may be regular elements in local so
ciety, either provoked by some malevolent creators 
or the consequence of some local condition.
 E Soulless maltech biotechnology cult, Sinister 
governmental agent, Crazed zombie cultist
 F Survivor of an outbreak, Doctor searching for a 
cure, Rebel against the secret malefactors
 C The zombies retain human intelligence, The 
zombies can be cured, The process is voluntary 
among devotees, The condition is infectious
 T Cure for the condition, Alien artifact that causes 
it, Details of the cult’s conversion process
 P House with boarded-up windows, Dead city, 
Fortified bunker that was overrun from within
160• atmoSPhere
 aTmosPhere
 The first step in randomized world generation is deter
mining the planet’s atmosphere. In some cases, this is 
going to be preordained; if you want a barren asteroid 
base, it’s not going to have any atmosphere at all. If you 
want a world teeming with human life, on the other 
hand, it almost certainly is going to have a breathable 
atmosphere.
 Note that if a truly noxious atmosphere, climate, 
or biosphere turns up on a random roll, you should 
think carefully about what has made humans choose 
to live on such a world. Perhaps the original colonists 
were prisoners exiled to an open-world prison. It could 
be their ancestors sought isolation at all costs. Given its 
position in the sector, it might be a vital refueling and 
trading port for multiple short-run spike drive cours
es. The original colonists might have had to make an 
emergency landing. Whatever the reason, it takes a 
powerful motivation to make a band of colonists de
cide to make a corrosive, burning hellhole of a planet 
their permanent home.
 Types of Atmospheres
 Corrosive atmospheres are dangerously hostile to con
ventional vacc suits and other protective gear. They 
steadily strip away at a suit’s vent ports, wiring connec
tions, and other weak spots until they eventually break 
through and flood the suit with a toxic cocktail that 
usually kills a victim in seconds. Weak atmospheres 
might require as much as a day to degrade a vacc suit, 
while strong ones might accomplish the job in an hour. 
Even forcefield-based environment suits such as a FEP 
suffer steady damage to their exposed elements.
 Native vacc suits are usually covered with an 
ablative layer or spray that can be regularly renewed, 
and their buildings often rely on a steadily-extruded 
slurry of neutralizing materials that can be constantly 
renewed by pores in the building surface itself. This 
often gives the building a drippy, half-melted look that 
may be more than cosmetic in the case of those struc
tures that have failing slurry pumps. Advanced tech 
level 5 equipment may be able to overcome the effects, 
but even pretech is often taxed by the relentless rigors 
of this world. Vehicles and shuttles are kept in pres
surized garages when not in use, and starships never 
land for long.
 Corrosive worlds have a number of intrinsic ad
venture complications, the largest being the way that 
every activity outside of a hab building comes with a 
built-in time limit. Whatever the party chooses to do 
outside of a building, it has to accomplish before their 
suit seals fail or the atmosphere corrodes a hole in their 
vehicle hull. A clever GM can use this problem to add 
extra tension to an otherwise simple task.
 Inert gas atmospheres aren’t hostile or poisonous, 
but they’re unbreathable by humans. If the planet’s cli
2d6
 Type
 2 Corrosive, damaging to foreign objects
 3 Inert gas, useless for respiration
 4 Airless or thin to the point of suffocation
 5-9 Breathable mix
 10
 Thick, but breathable with a pressure mask
 Invasive, penetrating suit seals
 11
 12
 Both corrosive and invasive in its effects
 mate is otherwise tolerable, the natives might be able 
to live and work outdoors without anything more than 
an air tank and face mask. Some degree of technical 
sophistication is going to be necessary for humanity 
to survive, and large supplies of oxygen are going to 
have to be extracted from some local source. “Air mines” 
might exist to replace the oxygen lost during human 
use, or local power plants might need to be kept run
ning full blast in order to crack water molecules into 
hydrogen and oxygen.
 On worlds with an unbreathable atmosphere, con
trol of the air supply makes it much harder for locals 
to rebel against their leaders. Without the equipment 
and power to generate their own air supplies, would-be 
rebels are entirely at the mercy of those who control 
the oxygen. Most rulers pick up on this fact rapidly, and 
some worlds with unbreathable atmospheres might 
even make it a crime to own illicit oxygen generation 
equipment.
 Airless or thin atmospheres are appropriate to as
teroids, rocky planetoids, or barren worlds that have 
had their atmospheres burnt off by weapons or cos
mic caprice. Whatever atmosphere exists is too thin 
to support human life, if it exists at all, and the world 
is largely naked to the chill of space and the blaze of 
stellar heat. Exposure to the planet’s surface without a 
vacc suit or pressurized building is as lethal as exposure 
to hard vacuum.
 Airless worlds are hostile to human life, but they 
excel at preserving the relics of the past. Provided that 
the ruins or remains are kept out of the baking heat of 
the local stellar body and the impact of random me
teorites, they can survive for millions of years. Some 
exceptionally ancient alien ruins might even date back 
from before the world lost its atmosphere.
 Breathable mix atmospheres can support human 
life without additional equipment or gengineered mod
ification. Any world that has a human population in 
the millions or more almost certainly has a breathable 
mix atmosphere.
 While the air is breathable, almost every world 
has its own subtle cocktail of inert gases, atmospher
ic contaminants, and other odoriferous ingredients. 
For spacers accustomed to the filtered air supply of a 
atmoSPhere •161 
starship, the “new world stink” of a fresh planetfall can 
be maddening, as few linger long enough to get used 
to the smell of the local air. Attempting to explain the 
source of this discomfort to the locals rarely results in 
positive results. Some spaceport bars make a point of 
their air filtration and composition mixers.
 Thick atmospheres can usually be breathed with the 
aid of a filter mask, though the mix of contaminants 
renders it slowly or quickly toxic to humans who at
tempt to breathe it straight. Separate air supplies are 
not necessary to supplement the blend, but any soci
ety that means to survive on such a world must have 
sufficient technological expertise to manufacture and 
maintain large numbers of filter masks.
 Thick atmospheres are often at least semi-opaque, 
and some worlds have thick atmospheres that are com
pletely impenetrable to ordinary light. Deep banks of 
permanent fog might shroud the planet, or natives 
might have to go about with sophisticated ultraviolet 
or infrared viewing equipment if they don’t wish to be 
blind. Some banks of gases might be impenetrable to 
even these viewing tools, leaving a party vulnerable 
to moments of complete blindness while out on the 
surface of the world.
 Invasive toxic atmospheres are composed of a 
substantial proportion of molecules small enough to 
infiltrate past the seals of most vacc suits. This infiltra
tion doesn’t harm the suit, but the molecules have to 
be steadily flushed by the system’s purification sensors 
before they build up to a debilitating level. This caus
es a much faster bleed of air as breathable oxygen is 
jettisoned along with the infiltrating molecules. Most 
invasive atmospheres cut oxygen supply durations by 
half, at best.
 Invasive atmospheres make oxygen an even more 
important resource than it is on inert gas worlds. Out
door work is avoided whenever possible, as any failure 
of a suit’s toxin sensors or flush system can lead to death 
before the wearer even realizes something is wrong. 
Steady exposure to low levels of the toxins can also 
result in unfortunate effects even with a fully-func
tional suit. Hallucinations, chronic sickness, or worse 
can follow.
 Corrosive and invasive atmospheres exist at the 
very border of what human society can tolerate. Com
bining all the worst traits of an eroding, corrosive at
mosphere and the invasive intrusion of toxic molecules, 
a planet cursed with an atmosphere like this is far more 
hostile than any mere airless rock.
 Advanced pretech filtering and oxygen generation 
equipment might be able to maintain tolerable pressur
ized habitats and hydroponic systems uncontaminated 
by exterior atmosphere. Anything less than this tech 
level means greater and greater amounts of societal 
resources devoted simply to the effort of breathing. 
Entire civilizations can be oriented around overcom
ing the difficulties of maintaining their structures and 
their pressurized homes.
 Whatever provoked the initial inhabitants to settle 
on this world must have been of overwhelming value 
or necessity to convince them to consign themselves 
and their children to such a place. It is highly unlikely 
that enough ship traffic exists to get any but the most 
fortunate locals offworld, so the rest are obliged to deal 
with their harsh existence as best they can.
162• temPerature
 TemPeraTure
 A world’s average temperature depends in large part 
upon its atmosphere. Worlds with an airless or thin 
atmosphere are directly exposed to the wild tempera
ture variations produced by stellar radiation and the 
cold void of space, and might flip regularly between 
unendurable heat and near-absolute zero depending 
on planetary rotation and orbit.
 If a GM intends this planet to have a large hu
man population they should restrict the possibility of 
a frozen or burning world. Anything that is intolera
ble to a human without a vacc suit means that major 
agriculture is unlikely. As it is effectively impossible to 
feed entire planets through limited interstellar trade, 
every planet needs to support its own population. A 
world that can’t grow food outside of hydroponic labs 
or underground farms is unlikely to support millions 
of people.
 Types of Climates
 Frozen worlds are those with so weak a stellar primary 
or so great a distance that the average temperature is 
close to absolute zero. Any atmosphere that once exist
ed has long since frozen into drifts of solidified oxygen 
or lakes of liquid helium. Exposure to these drifts is 
very dangerous. Vacc suits maintain a tolerable tem
perature easily because the stellar void is very empty, 
and there is little conduction of heat between the suit 
and empty space. Dunking a suit into a lake of thermal
ly-conductive superchilled liquid can force the heating 
elements into sudden and drastic overload, draining a 
power cell in minutes or even seconds.
 Cold worlds are uncomfortable, but a human can 
survive on them in nothing more than heavy clothing. 
The worst of the cold worlds are similar in condition 
to Earth’s Antarctic regions, barren wastes of ice and 
wind. The more clement ones have brief warmer sea
sons or equatorial bands that get enough solar radiation 
to support substantial agriculture.
 On cold worlds, agricultural land is at a premi
um. The population is unlikely to be willing to limit its 
numbers to what hydroponic farms can provide, and 
they may lack the technology for wide-scale artificial 
production methods. Savage wars may have broken out 
over control of fertile growing regions, and popula
tions have perhaps been driven away from the arable 
land into the cold zones and a lingering death.
 Some worlds retain installations from before the 
Silence deep within the frozen wastes, ancient bases 
and laboratories that were planted in an age when 
good launch sites and orbital windows meant more 
than trifles of temperature. These lost sites might be 
remembered in legend and story, and some native lead
ers might still be in possession of the automatic defense 
2d6
 2
 3
 4-5
 6-8
 9-10
 11
 Type
 Frozen, locked in perpetual ice
 Cold, dominated by glaciers and tundra
 Variable cold with temperate places
 Temperate, Earthlike in its ranges
 Variable warm, with temperate places
 12
 Warm, tropical and hotter in places
 Burning, intolerably hot on its surface
 Temperate worlds were the most popular colony 
sites, and most of the truly populous worlds of the 
frontier have a temperate climate. Many temperate 
worlds have temperature ranges not unlike that of 
Earth, though most are canted a little further toward 
cold or heat depending on their angle and proximity 
to the local star.
 Temperate worlds are the most likely to teem with 
native life as well, and to have alien ruins or remains 
located somewhere on their surface. Most frontier 
worlds never accumulated enough population to put a 
serious strain on a temperate world’s arable land, but 
this same capaciousness often allows for more com
plicated social divisions to develop. Natives of other 
worlds are often forced to cooperate or die, while those 
of a clement temperate world have the luxury of deep 
and lasting divisions.
 Warm worlds come in two main flavors, depend
ing on the prevalence of water. “Desert worlds” are hot 
enough or arid enough to be deprived of most surface 
water. Any life on such a planet has to be capable of 
extracting water from living prey, air currents or mois
ture supplies deep underground. Humans can survive 
on warm worlds without more than appropriate cloth
ing, but desert-world humans must learn sophisticated 
techniques of water prospecting and well-drilling in 
order to maintain their agricultural systems. Warfare 
often revolves around these water systems.
 The other common variety of warm world is one 
blessed with an abundance of surface water. These 
worlds tend to be covered with plant and animal life, 
teeming with thick jungles and vast mats of sargasso on 
seas that boil with piscids and other alien life analogs. 
These worlds can be quite prosperous for humans if the 
native life is edible, but inhabitants are often forced to 
deal with large predators and a vigorously ingenious 
native ecology of disease. 
Variable temperature worlds tend to show a greater 
distribution of climates than other worlds, either rang
ing from cold to temperate levels or temperate to hot 
levels. This may be a climate that changes world-wide 
when a long, slow orbit brings the planet into prox
imity with a stellar primary, or it might be a world 
bypass codes handed down by their ancestors.
 that has substantially different climatic zones spread 
temPerature •163 
across its surface. The north pole of one world might 
be a sun-blasted desert that moderates to a cool, wet 
equator, or an icy world might be warmed here and 
there by complex channels of geothermally-heated 
subsurface rivers. Variable temperature worlds tend 
to have savage weather. The mixing of hot and cold 
air can send ferocious cyclones and raging hurricanes 
across the surface of the world, some large enough to 
consume most of a hemisphere. 
Burning worlds are too hot for a human to survive 
without equipment similar to a vacc suit in effective
ness. Rivulets of molten lead or copper might bleed 
from open veins on the hillsides, and many of the same 
perils that face an explorer on a frozen world have hot
ter equivalents on a burning one. Ash drifts, pools of 
molten metal, and superheated liquid vents can bring 
quick death to an unwary explorer, and the miners who 
inhabit such worlds must be forever vigilant against the 
perils of their burning home.
 Climate and Adventure
 Any planet with Burning or Frozen conditions is go
ing to need some kind of sealed habitat for humanity. 
Worlds of Cold or Warm temperatures are at least hab
itable outside of their most extreme zones, though icy 
planets might not have much arable land on the outside.
 As a consequence, planets with Frozen or Burning 
temperatures tend to have the climate as a backdrop 
rather than something the PCs regularly need to deal 
with. If they’ve landed on such a world’s spaceport, it’s 
probably sealed in some subterranean hangar-cavern 
or domed over by massive civil engineering. The ice 
or flame might be a constant concern of the locals, but 
the PCs aren’t going to have to cope with it unless they 
have to leave the inhabited regions of the planet.
 On Burning worlds, this isn’t going to happen very 
often. Any habitat without active climate control is go
ing to be melted or torched by local conditions in short 
order. There will be no ruins to explore or remnants to 
recover unless they’re somehow fireproof.
 The easiest use of a Burning world’s temperature 
is as a threat to the locals or the PCs. If something isn’t 
fixed, or if something is destroyed, or if some place isn’t 
evacuated in time, then things will get intolerably hot. 
There’s usually a grace period of increasing tempera
ture to help add urgency to the situation and layer on 
potential penalties or dangers as the PCs struggle to 
cope with the situation.
 Frozen worlds can be equally lethal if a flood of 
liquid oxygen threatens to sweep through a habitat or 
a cold-brittled vital component breaks down. More 
significantly to PCs, however, frozen worlds tend to 
be much better about preserving ruins and remains. 
The PCs might be forced to deal with the frigid tem
peratures as they search through an alien structure or 
the icy halls of a dead habitat. Such conditions can lead 
to strict time limits on an expedition before materials 
start to brittle and fail under the relentless chill.
164• bioSPhere
 bIosPhere
 Some worlds are highly unlikely to have a biosphere. 
An airless rock, a frozen wasteland, or a world of boil
ing tin all are unlikely to host any sort of life more 
sophisticated than microbes, though the universe has 
demonstrated the existence of a few exotic creatures 
even on seemingly unendurable planets.
 The real question of a biosphere is whether or not 
it’s edible. Colonists on a world without edible local life 
are forced to seed and grow Terran crops, which may 
well be outcompeted by native life specifically evolved 
for this world. Such colonists might well end up starv
ing amid gardens of alien fruit, unable to digest any of 
it. The only benefit of such worlds is the likelihood that 
humans are just as poisonous to local life, though many 
large predators don’t realize that until after they devour 
some luckless colonist.
 Types of Biosphere
 Biosphere remnants are the wreckage of a ruined ecol
ogy. Petrified trees, drifts of preserved bones, forests 
of dead plant life; something killed all the life on this 
planet in the relatively recent past. It may have been the 
exercise of a maltech planet-buster weapon, or a mu
tant microbe introduced by human colonists, or some 
volcanic eruption or asteroid impact that plunged the 
world into decades of frozen night.
 Any local civilization not sophisticated enough to 
escape the planet likely died when it did. Their ruins 
and remains might be found throughout the desolate 
wastes, along with more clues as to the cause of the 
devastation.
 Microbial life is often the only thing that exists on 
the more inhospitable planets, yet the wide variety of 
environments that can accommodate life means that 
these little beasts show up in some of the most un
likely places. Some varieties of slime mold have even 
managed to evolve on corrosive-atmosphere planets, 
forming a mucous-like outer shell against the atmo
sphere and then feeding and growing off the chemical 
byproducts of its erosion.
 Microbial life can also be dangerous. While most 
alien microbes are unable to infect or harm the radically 
different biology of humans, some show enough inge
nuity to accomplish even that difficult feat. Rumors of 
terrible “space plagues” that leave behind only drifting 
ships and garbled warnings remain a steady staple at 
spacer bars throughout the known universe.
 No native biosphere is occasionally found on even 
the most temperate and otherwise habitable worlds. 
For one reason or another, life simply never evolved 
on these worlds, leaving them a blank slate for the ag
ricultural and ecological efforts of humans. If the world 
is otherwise amenable to Terran life, such planets can 
be enormously fertile and agriculturally rich.
 2d6
 2
 3
 Type
 Remnant biosphere
 Microbial life forms exist
 4-5 No native biosphere
 6-8 Human-miscible biosphere
 9-10 Immiscible biosphere
 11
 12
 Hybrid biosphere
 Engineered biosphere
 They can also be disasters waiting to happen. Pre
tech xenobiologists compiled standardized colonization 
packages of plants, animals, and insect life designed to 
expand smoothly and evenly to fill the niches of an un
inhabited world. Not all colonists implemented these 
packages correctly, and some worlds had disasters or 
special circumstances that destabilized their efforts. 
Some empty worlds are now in a state of constant bi
ological flux as the local ecology strives vainly to find 
some sort of equilibrium between the myriad imported 
species and their violent struggle.
 More subtly, these worlds can be suddenly and 
drastically destabilized by the import of some offworld 
plant or animal. With no strong native ecology to fight 
off interlopers, the wrong beast or bug can lay waste to 
whole continents. These planets tend to be extremely 
paranoid about importation of foreign life forms.
 Human-miscible biospheres are those in which 
some substantial portion of the native life is biologi
cally compatible with human nutritional needs. The 
local plants and animals may not be tasty or terribly 
nourishing, but they can support life without the se
rious importation of Terran crop seeds and livestock.
 Even the friendlier human-miscible biospheres 
often lack the wide variety of edibles that evolved on 
Earth, and the natives often supplement their stocks 
of local foods with limited Terran agriculture. Exotic 
foods, spices, and liquors can be worth interstellar im
portation to feed the hunger for novelty possessed by 
the elites on these worlds.
 Unfortunately, the fact that humans can eat some 
native life means that it is very likely that some na
tive life can eat humans as well. Large predators and 
diseases capable of human infection are by no means 
uncommon on these worlds, and small colonies can be 
hard-pressed to survive them.
 Immiscible biospheres are not friendly to humans. 
None of the local plants or animals are edible, and any
thing the colony needs to eat will have to be grown 
from Terran stock. Worse, it is common for the pollen 
and other microbial life of these worlds to be highly 
allergenic to humans, requiring the regular use of tai
lored antiallergenics to prevent eventual respiratory 
failure or exotic immune-system reactions.
These worlds are exceptionally susceptible to the 
bioSPhere •165 
forming new alliances. Large predators from one world 
temptation of human gengineering. Despite the per
sistent drawbacks, genetic flaws, and handicaps that hu
man gengineering usually introduces in a subject, the 
desperate need to eat can drive worlds to wholesale 
experimentation on their progeny. The resultant al
tered humans are often able to digest the local food, but 
commonly pay for it in shortened life spans, physical 
disabilities, or an inability to consume Terran food
stuffs. Sometimes the consequences are worse still.
 Immiscible biospheres produce some of the most 
exotic plants and animals in human space. Unfettered 
by the limits of familiar evolutionary patterns, crea
tures of bizarre beauty and strange configurations are 
found on many of these worlds. Many lack the intelli
gence to realize that humans are as poisonous to them 
as they are to humans.
 Hybrid biospheres are a stable intermixing of Ter
ran flora and fauna with local life forms. Most such 
worlds have been colonized for centuries before the 
Silence, giving the local ecology time to shake out into 
a relatively stable configuration of Earth-born organ
isms and native life. The native biology may or may 
not be miscible with human life, but it is unlikely to be 
particularly hostile in any case, or else the interloping 
life forms would not have been able to get a foothold 
on the planet.
 Hybrid biospheres often show strange examples 
of symbiosis and adaptation, with plants and animals 
may find themselves subsisting on herds of herbivo
rous alien life, while Terran vegetation provides suste
nance for large populations of small, furred, insect-like 
grazers. Familiar animals may show seemingly bizarre 
behavior patterns that have formed in response to local 
conditions, perhaps becoming larger or more aggres
sive, or having been gengineered for compatibility.
 Engineered biospheres are among the rarest, as 
they require enormous time and effort on the part of 
a highly advanced civilization. Whatever life exists on 
this planet has been extensively altered by an alien race 
or by advanced pretech gengineering methods. Some 
such worlds are paradise planets, carefully sculpted by 
some fabulously wealthy predecessor to suit their own 
tastes. Others are living forges, where foodstuffs and 
refined minerals are produced as byproducts from the 
basic organic processes of the world’s biosphere.
 Such worlds tend to be fragile. Many engineered 
worlds are dependent upon regular stabilizing work to 
prevent genetic drift and adaptations that do not serve 
the creator’s purpose. Without regular pruning and 
adjustment, engineered biospheres can go badly awry. 
Some end up leaving nothing but genetic wreckage 
in their wake, while others go wrong in more subtle 
ways. Where once the biosphere existed to serve the 
inhabitants, a creaking engineered biosphere can leave 
the planet’s population chained to constant repair and 
maintenance efforts just to prevent a planetary collapse.
166• PoPulation
 PoPulaTIon
 Planetary populations hinge on a world’s habitabili
ty. Worlds incapable of growing food on the planet’s 
surface are unlikely to have more than a few hundred 
thousand inhabitants at best, and truly inimical worlds 
might be lucky to have a tenth as many. As a rule of 
thumb, a world ought to have some kind of human 
habitation on it unless the GM has a specific purpose 
for it in mind. A world untouched by human presence 
can be interesting in many ways, but without elabora
tion there’s little to distinguish it from the next airless 
ball of rock.
 Humans breed quickly, and will tend to push up 
against the limits of a world’s capacity to feed and sup
port them. Some cultures with sufficient tech might 
rely on contraceptives and birth licensing to ensure 
sufficient food for its population, while others might 
choose or be forced to leave matters to simple Mal
thusian culling. Wars and diseases may also serve as 
a check on population, or in some cases, cultures may 
find themselves so wealthy, self-absorbed and comfort
able as to voluntarily choose not to reproduce.
 Population Sizes
 Failed colonies are occasionally found dotting the worlds 
of human space. Some date back to the First Wave of 
human colonization more than a thousand years ago, 
while others are more recent efforts that guttered out 
under the strains of a colony’s birth.
 Pirate attacks might have wiped out a young col
ony, as might a hostile biosphere, alien attack, internal 
dissension, disease outbreaks, failure of vital colonial 
equipment, or any one of a hundred other disasters. 
The ruins of the colony might still have valuable pre
tech artifacts, however, or colonization deeds autho
rized by neighboring worlds. A few survivors might 
even have clung to life in the intervening centuries, 
maintaining some sort of society in the wreckage of 
their ancestors’ work.
 Outposts are rarely composed of more than a few 
hundred or few thousand colonists at the most. Out
posts are either very new colonies that have not have 
the requisite time to grow or they are uncolonized 
worlds that just happen to have a naval or corporate 
base on the surface.
 Corporate or military outposts aren’t intended to 
be completely self-sufficient. While large outposts are 
often forced to raise their own food supplies, replace
ment personnel, spare parts, and advanced tech must 
all be brought in from elsewhere. Such temporary out
posts are known to find themselves in sudden distress 
when a vital supply ship fails to make its drop or when 
some local threat proves more than the staff can handle.
 Colonial outposts tend to be better equipped but 
with less outside backing. Such natives expect to live 
and die on the world, and are more inclined to build 
2d6
 2
 3
 Type
 Failed colony
 Outpost
 4-5 Fewer than a million inhabitants
 6-8 Several million inhabitants
 9-10 Hundreds of millions of inhabitants
 11
 12
 Billions of inhabitants
 Alien inhabitants
 permanent structures and local improvements. Many 
are exiles, malcontents, or others incapable of tolerat
ing the world that sent them forth, and it can make for 
a somewhat explosive mix in a young colony. These 
pioneers tend to be very friendly towards visiting 
starships, as they are often dependent upon free trad
ers and tramp merchants to bring them vital supplies 
or news of the sector.
 Some “outposts” are really just the stubborn, per
sistent survivors of a long-failed colonization attempt. 
These cultures can survive for centuries, perpetually 
culled by the dangers of the world until the survivors 
are little more than one more ragged element of the 
local ecology.
 Fewer than a million inhabitants are often found on 
newly-colonized worlds, or those with limited arable 
land. This class has the widest range of results, from 
societies barely large enough to avoid inbreeding to 
minor worlds of several hundred thousand locals strug
gling against hostile local conditions.
 For worlds with a very small population, settle
ments tend to be clustered close to one another for 
mutual support and efficient exploitation of land. The 
atmosphere might be something like that of a vil
lage-dotted countryside, with too few people to support 
large, specialized cities. The major settlement of the 
planet is usually built around the spaceport.
 Politics on planets with so few people tend to be 
very personal in nature. Individual leaders can some
times address the entire population of a world at a 
single meeting, and networks of family, friends, and 
employees can dominate the local social life. This small 
population combined with limited outside contact can 
result in somewhat… unusual societies more strongly 
influenced by a leader’s personal quirks than a more 
populous planet might be. Some such worlds can grow 
decidedly unhealthy in their customs and traditions.
 Hundreds of thousands of inhabitants make up 
the population of many frontier worlds, usually ones 
with adequate supplies of arable land and surface condi
tions amenable to a human without a vacc suit or filter 
mask. This level of population is also usually the most 
that a world at TL4 can support using only artificial 
hydroponic complexes and sealed agricultural systems, 
so less hospitable planets rarely have more than this 
PoPulation •167 
many inhabitants.
 At a hundred thousand citizens or more, city-states 
and hub settlements start to form, and some major po
litical divisions might exist beneath the overall plane
tary government. Regional variations start to become 
present as towns and smaller settlements start to assert 
their own cultural traits. Young colonies rarely have 
much of a framework for resolving these new tensions, 
and it’s not uncommon for outsiders to end up as cats
paws for varying factions.
 A hundred thousand inhabitants is normally 
the smallest population that can create spike drive
equipped starships. Less populous worlds rarely have 
the broad range of specialists and workers necessary 
to build such ships, even if they possess the necessary 
technical information. Even at this threshold, main
taining any kind of astronautic industry would require 
the determined focus of the entire society. Only at pop
ulations of a million-plus inhabitants is there enough 
of an industrial margin to allow for less determined 
construction of spike drive starships.
 Millions of inhabitants are found on some of the 
more populous frontier worlds, those planets with an 
excellent climate and soil for agriculture. These worlds 
teem with human life compared to most of their neigh
bors, and if they have sufficient technological exper
tise to build spike drives, they probably are among the 
significant powers of the sector. The sheer amount 
of labor and expertise they can put into their projects 
dwarfs the capabilities of less populated worlds.
 Some worlds of this type fail to coalesce under a 
unified planetary government, however, and turn most 
of their attention to intra-planetary quarrels between 
different nations or city-states. Full-scale planetary 
wars have been known to break out on such worlds, 
with some being reduced to burnt-out cinders by some 
maltech weapon or by nuclear attacks against regions 
stripped of their nuke snuffers.
 Billions of inhabitants on a world is a freak occur
rence in most sectors, a circumstance dependent on 
almost perfect planetary conditions, a First Wave date 
of colonization, a very large initial colonial expedition, 
and a strong cultural imperative for reproduction. 
These worlds have been colonized for almost a thou
sand years, and have likely gone through substantial 
cultural development and change since their founding.
 Planets with this many inhabitants tend to come 
in two main varieties. The more common is that of 
regional hegemon, leveraging its enormous reserves 
of labor and scientific personnel to build hundreds or 
thousands of starships. Some hegemons might even 
have the transport weight and personnel available to 
colonize or conquer their less powerful neighbors out
right, though most hegemons prefer the safer route of 
docile client states rather than outright conquest.
 Not all such worlds have the necessary resources 
abundant. These worlds tend to take a different route, 
becoming balkanized, conflict-torn planets not unlike 
a mid-20th-century Earth. Resource wars are common 
and local politics revolve around byzantine feuds and 
ancient slights. Technology on such planets tends to be 
very uneven; it is limited or nonexistent in fields that 
depend on unavailable resources, but the natives often 
show remarkable sophistication in making the most of 
what they have available.
 Alien civilizations are even rarer than massively hu
man-populated planets, but they can be found in some 
sectors. On these worlds, any human presence is either 
nonexistent or simply a token contingent of traders and 
diplomats. The actual number of aliens may range from 
a few tens of thousands to teeming worlds of billions.
 Alien civilizations appear to be no more immune 
to conflict, disaster, and decadence than that of humans, 
and most alien worlds are isolated planets. Some sec
tors were known to be dominated by alien empires be
fore the Scream, but most inhabited worlds found by 
colonial surveyors consisted of indigenous, low-tech 
sapients who evolved on the world, or else were the 
decaying remnants of a former empire that had fallen 
apart into isolated colonial worlds.
 This fate of growth, expansion, colonization, and 
collapse appears to be a very common event in the gal
axy. Countless alien ruins and lost deep-space artifacts 
indicate that cycles of growth and decay have been 
going on for millennia, and there is little way to tell 
how many alien empires have swept over what is now 
human space before dwindling to rotting worlds and 
then empty ruins.
 Population Growth
 Most worlds have reached an equilibrium state with 
their current populations. While there may be some 
variation, few worlds are likely to increase much with
out a drastic change in the local conditions.
 For primitive worlds, this limit has been reached 
in brutally Malthusian fashion. The locals simply can
not support any substantial increase of their numbers, 
and additional population is restricted by widespread 
contraceptive use, selective infanticide, or regular 
bouts of mass starvation. The only way out of this trap 
is through advanced technology that can overcome 
the local resource limitations, after which such worlds 
might explode in population over a scant few decades.
 For more advanced worlds, this limit tends to be 
organic to the culture. With sophisticated technolo
gy to supply abundant entertainment and sustenance, 
there is less importance in having offspring to labor 
for the family or nourish its aged members. Individu
als become more interested in their own pleasures and 
ambitions than in the burdensome work of child-rear
ing, and population tends to slope downward until 
cultural mores reinforce a certain basic minimum of 
reproduction. A drastic change in cultural attitudes or 
to build starships, even when the labor is cheap and 
an increase in societal uncertainty can alter this rapidly.
168• teCh level
 TeCh leVel
 The tech level of a world represents not only the lev
el of technological progress and scientific knowledge 
available on it, but also the world’s ability to translate 
that knowledge into effective production. A world 
might still guard texts describing elaborate principles 
of petrochemical manipulation, but without oil or 
fossil fuels on the planet they have no way to use the 
information. It is this kind of resource limitation that 
most often keeps a world caught at a low level of tech. 
Without bottleneck resources such as petrochemicals 
or radioactives, they can’t develop the technology that 
would allow them to do without such resources.
 Tech level 4 is the baseline level of development for 
planets capable of building fusion plants, spike-drive 
equipped starships, limited longevity enhancements, 
and basic energy weapons. A planet without this level 
of development is effectively cut off from interstellar 
news and trade without the good offices of far traders, 
explorers, or scavenger fleet contacts.
 Tech levels are rough approximations, and every 
planet is going to have variance within that range. A 
decayed colony is unlikely to have forgotten the basics 
of human anatomy and practical wound care, but they 
may not have the local resources to fashion medical 
tools more sophisticated than obsidian scalpels and 
herbal poultices. By the same token, a primitive world 
might have local resources that are exceptionally useful 
in one or two narrow ranges of technology.
 Planetary Tech Levels
 Tech level 0 represents a world with technologies simi
lar to neolithic-era humanity. Very few worlds collapse 
this far without dying out completely, and so a world 
this primitive is very rare in human space. The world 
is so profoundly devoid of useful resources that the 
natives may simply not have anything better to work 
with than rocks and native vegetation.
 Natives of a world at this tech level might retain 
elaborate cultural artifacts and a very sophisticated 
society. Existing resources tend to be exploited to the 
hilt, with large populations producing massive stone 
cities, human-powered engines for irrigation, and vast 
displays of foodstuffs and craft work for the ruling class. 
Despite this, the lack of metal, domesticated beasts of 
burden, and petrochemicals puts a hard stop on the 
technological development of most of these worlds.
 Responses to far traders and other interstellar 
travelers will vary with the local culture. The lack of 
quick communications methods tends to result in large 
populations breaking up into numerous smaller re
gional cultures, and the friendly prince of one domain 
might neighbor an implacably hostile sage-king. Most 
“lostworlders” have a keen appreciation for the benefits 
these strangers from the sky can bring them, and will 
bargain accordingly.
 2d6
 Type
 2 TL0, neolithic-level technology
 3
 TL1, medieval technology
 4-5 TL2, early Industrial Age tech
 6-8 TL4, modern postech
 9-10 TL3, tech like that of present-day Earth
 11
 12
 TL4+, postech with specialties
 TL5, pretech with surviving infrastructure
 Some worlds might retain crisply rational records 
of their colonization and downfall. Others might pre
serve tales of a starry origin in legends and story. A few 
might have forgotten their origins entirely, and view 
sky-born humans as gods or messengers of the divine. 
Such awe rarely lasts very long once the merchants or 
pirates who landed make their purposes clear.
 Tech level 1 worlds have managed to find and ex
ploit metal deposits and likely have imported or domes
ticated beasts of burden. Those worlds with easy access 
to fossil fuels or a similarly energy-dense substance can 
advance to greater things, but a culture trapped at TL1 
is unlikely to have access to such helpful resources. A 
few worlds have enough usable plant matter or other 
combustibles to make steam engines feasible, but those 
with very much of such a resource usually make the 
leap to the next tech level eventually.
 As a consequence, tech level 1 worlds tend to be 
caught at much the same general level of development 
as their tech level 0 cousins. They may have elaborate 
social structures and cultural development, but they 
are unable to mechanize without some energy-dense 
resource to serve as fuel. The scavenged hulks of their 
ancestors’ fusion plants may stand as mute temples to 
the achievements of their forebears, but without the 
tech necessary to repair and rebuild such edifices the 
world is dependent on purely local fuel sources.
 Tech level 1 worlds tend to respond to visitors in 
much the same way as tech level 0 planets. The ruling 
class of these worlds is liable to be able to muster larger 
cities, bigger armies, and all the other perquisites that 
come from being able to work the available agricultural 
land with fewer hands.
 Tech level 2 worlds are blessed with the presence of 
fossil fuels or a feasibly abundant biofuel source. Inter
nal combustion engines are crude things compared to 
the power of a fusion plant, but they can be built with 
primitive tools and a basic degree of education. The 
mechanization that results from this resource vastly 
increases the efficiency of local farming, the speed of 
travel, and the productivity of factory workers.
 Most tech level 2 worlds are “knockdowns”; plan
ets that once had a much higher degree of sophisti
cation but were recently crippled by disease, disaster, 
or invasion. The natives tend to be keenly aware of 
teCh level •169 
to produce results without severe drawbacks, but some 
the glories of former generations, and work fiercely to 
redevelop lost techniques and reclaim old knowledge.
 Few tech level 2 worlds produce much that’s worth 
interstellar trade. Most foodstuffs are too bulky and 
cheap to make it worth a captain’s time. Some worlds 
have rare ore deposits, but the natives have no reason 
to dig them until a merchant makes it worth their while 
to set up a whole new industry for export. Some such 
worlds barter the relics of their ancestors in exchange 
for educational materials or rare resources necessary 
for advancing local industry. Others feel forced to trade 
native work contracts for dangerous, dirty labor in a 
bargain that’s little different from slave trading.
 Tech level 3 worlds are those that have developed 
to a level much like that of the more advanced nations 
of late twentieth-century Earth. The main difference 
between tech level 3 worlds and level 4 worlds is the 
lack of fusion power or spike drive manufacture.
 These worlds come in two major varieties. The 
first is a “knockdown” world that formerly had tech 
level 4 technologies before some catastrophe or pirate 
attack destroyed their knowledge and industrial base. 
Some of the wrecked infrastructure might have been 
irreplaceable, and the world must struggle to regain its 
former level of technological production. Worlds in 
this condition tend to have rather small populations 
that are susceptible to the loss of a few concentrated 
groups of experts.
 The second major variety is a world that suffered 
a severe disaster shortly after colonization and has 
been forced to painstakingly build up their technolog
ical base ever since. Some of these worlds date back to 
the First Wave of colonization a thousand years ago, 
driven into near-neolithic conditions by some outside 
pressure before slowly and painfully rebuilding their 
technological base through purely indigenous efforts. 
These worlds tend to have very large populations if the 
world’s climate permits, as they have been colonized for 
quite some time.
 Simply providing a world with the necessary tech
nical data for advancement doesn’t mean that advance
ment will be quick or even. Even if a tech level 3 world 
has the necessary resources to build tech level 4 devices, 
it may take as much as a generation for a world to build 
the necessary infrastructure and resource extraction 
enterprises. The time may be longer still if the domi
nant cultures are uneasy with the new technology.
 Tech level 4 worlds are the most common in hu
man space, and their technical expertise is the baseline 
for modern post-Silence “postech”. These worlds can 
create spike drives rated up to drive-3, fusion pow
er plants, grav vehicles, simple energy weapons, and 
medicines that extend human life to a hundred years of 
vigorous good health. They can manage sophisticated 
gengineering on simple life forms, and some tech level 
4 worlds have even attempted to improve the genetic 
structures of human life itself. These attempts have yet 
such worlds remain populated by altered humanity 
designed to cope with local conditions more perfectly 
than baseline humans.
 Most worlds with regular interstellar contact and 
the necessary raw resources eventually gravitate to
wards this level of technological expertise. It may take 
decades, or even centuries in the case of more retro
grade worlds, but this tech level is the highest that can 
readily be achieved by most planets.
 Tech level 4 with specialties is an unusual case of 
a normal tech level 4 world that has retained some 
pretech industries or has developed their own local 
technical expertise beyond baseline postech in certain 
specific fields.
 Most such specialties are relatively narrow in 
scope; grav tech, medicine, hydroponics, force field 
generation, or some field of roughly similar breadth. 
These specialties are usually either the product of a 
few irreplaceable pretech manufactories or the result 
of some unique local resource that serves amazingly 
well for the purpose at hand. In both cases, the world 
will jealously guard the tech, and much local conflict 
may relate to control over these resources.
 These worlds tend to have substantial amounts of 
interstellar trade from neighboring worlds interested 
in their tech. The ruling elite of the world can be os
tentatious about display of this wealth.
 Tech level 5 is the highest tech level that might 
merit random placement. A world with this level of 
technological expertise has somehow managed to 
hold on to the majority of the pre-Scream technology 
base, and can produce a wide range of goods that are 
unknown on less sophisticated worlds. Miniaturized 
fusion plants, drive-6 rated spike drives, exotic grav 
weaponry, and even the development of psionics-based 
“psitech” is possible on such a world.
 Pretech manufacturing was largely dependent on 
specially-trained industrial psychics. With the loss of 
their unique disciplines in the Scream, most worlds 
that retain this level of tech classification were forced 
to substitute slower, less precise methods that sharply 
curtailed their production efficiency. Barring the pro
foundly unlikely happenstance of this world’s redevel
opment of the lost disciplines, their maximum indus
trial output is sharply limited. Even on worlds such as 
this, most technology is likely mass-produced postech, 
with only important goods produced to pretech levels 
of quality.
 A world with this level of technology is almost 
certainly a regional hegemon, one of the most pow
erful and influential worlds in the sector. Even those 
worlds that have no imperial ambitions have enormous 
influence simply through the vast superiority of their 
starships and military technology.
170• SyStem PointS of intereSt
 addITIonal sysTem PoInTs of InTeresT
 The world you’re creating is the most interesting or 
important place in this solar system, but it may not be 
the only one. If you wish, you can decorate the system 
with other points of interest worth PC attention. You 
might do this at the same time you roll up the system’s 
primary world, or you could wait until it becomes a 
significant point in play.
 Adding Other Worlds
 For simplicity’s sake, it’s often best to just stick with 
one inhabited world. The original colonists would have 
chosen the most human-habitable planet in the system, 
and unless they grew dramatically in the time before 
the Scream they wouldn’t have had reason to colonize 
less favorable planets before the catastrophe knocked 
out their spaceflight capabilities. Other rocks might be 
floating in the system, but they’re probably barren and 
uninhabited.
 If you do decide to add additional inhabited planets 
to the system, you can generate them normally, but 
you’ll want to ask yourself a few special questions. The 
table below offers some ideas for potential answers.
 First, what is the origin of the world, and how does 
it relate to the primary world in the system? Knowing 
where this secondary planet’s inhabitants came from 
can often give you answers to a host of other questions.
 Second, how do they feel about the primary world? 
If you generate three or more worlds, you’ll want to 
decide how each of them feels about the other. This 
feeling may not necessarily be reciprocal.
 Third, what’s the major point of contact between 
them and the primary world? If the two are on a friend
ly basis, this contact might be something that benefits 
them both, while a more hostile relationship could 
make it a point they’re fighting over or otherwise 
struggling to maintain dominance in. In the case of a 
mutual threat, it might be something both are facing 
with a united front, or it could be the two are struggling 
to see who gets thrown to the wolves first.
 With these three answers in hand you’ll be able 
to flesh out this second planet more easily, adding in 
elements from the primary world as needed.
 Other Points of Interest
 Aside from other inhabited planets, a system can con
tain a number of other settlements or stations that 
could draw PC attention. Most of the time these sta
tions can simply be assumed; a TL4 world is going to 
have asteroid mines and refueling stations and listening 
posts, and most of these locations have no importance 
to the game until the PCs go looking for them.
 Other times, however, you’ll want to pre-seed the 
system with a few interesting locations. The adjacent 
table offers a number of different possibilities to roll 
or choose from.
 Most of the points are intended to be remote 
outposts of the primary world. They might be deep
space research stations, refueling stations on the edge 
of the system, bases on isolated gas-giant moons that 
have valuable resources, or other far-flung tendrils of 
a greater civilization.
 Some of these points could be more independent 
establishments. A deep-space existence can be made 
largely self-sustaining with TL4 engineering, though 
the life there is likely primitive and tenuous. With 
enough cobbled-together defenses and a lack of any
thing particularly worth stealing, exile groups, recluses, 
and other antisocial sorts can make themselves a pri
vate domain that no local planet cares about enough to 
commit the resources required to destroy it.
 Others among these remote stations become out
posts for pirates and other reavers, usually operating 
under some deniable cover or protected by enough 
defensive installations to dissuade anything short of a 
major military assault. The calculus for these robbers 
is simple; the effort a planetary navy would have to 
make to get rid of them must be more than the cost of 
tolerating their depredations.
 Few of these anarchic outposts last for very long. 
The stronger and more active they become, the more 
pressing it is for their victims to take steps to disperse 
them. Barring some pirate king both charismatic and 
foolhardy, most such outposts are primed for quick 
abandonment when a fleet shows up on the sensors.
 d8 Origin of the World Current Relationship Contact Point
 1 Recent colony from the primary world Confirmed hatred of each other Trade in vital goods
 2 Refuge for exiles from primary Active cold war between them Shared religion
 3 Founded ages ago by a different group Old grudges or resentments Mutual language
 4 Founded long before the primary world Cultural disgust and avoidance Entertainment content
 5 Lost ancient colony of the primary Polite interchange and trade Shared research
 6 Colony recently torn free of the primary Cultural admiration for primary Threat to both of them
 7 Long-standing cooperative colony world Long-standing friendship Shared elite families
 8 Recent interstellar colony from elsewhere Unflinching mutual loyalty Exploiting shared resource
SyStem PointS of intereSt •171 
d8 A point… d10 …occupied by… d10 …with this situation.
 1 Deep-space station 1-2 Dangerously odd transhumans 1-2 Systems breaking down
 3-4 Freeze-dried ancient corpses 3-4 Foreign sabotage attempt
 5-6 Secretive military observers 5-6 Black market for the elite
 7-8 Eccentric oligarch and minions 7-8 Vault for dangerous pretech
 9-0 Deranged but brilliant scientist 9-0 Supply base for pirates
 2 Asteroid base 1-2 Zealous religious sectarians 1-2 Life support is threatened
 3-4 Failed rebels from another world 3-4 Base needs a new asteroid
 5-6 Wage-slave corporate miners 5-6 Dug out something nasty
 7-8 Independent asteroid prospectors 7-8 Fighting another asteroid
 9-0 Pirates masquerading as otherwise 9-0 Hit a priceless vein of ore
 3 Remote moon base 1-2 Unlucky corporate researchers 1-2 Something dark has awoken
 3-4 Reclusive hermit genius 3-4 Criminals trying to take over
 5-6 Remnants of a failed colony 5-6 Moon plague breaking out
 7-8 Military listening post 7-8 Desperate for vital supplies
 9-0 Lonely overseers and robot miners 9-0 Rich but badly-protected
 4 Ancient orbital ruin 1-2 Robots of dubious sentience 1-2 Trying to stop it awakening
 3-4 Trigger-happy scavengers 3-4 Meddling with strange tech
 5-6 Government researchers 5-6 Impending tech calamity
 7-8 Military quarantine enforcers 7-8 A terrible secret is unearthed
 9-0 Heirs of the original alien builders 9-0 Fighting outside interlopers
 5 Research base 1-2 Experiments that have gotten loose 1-2 Perilous research underway
 3-4 Scientists from a major local corp 3-4 Hideously immoral research
 5-6 Black-ops governmental researchers 5-6 Held hostage by outsiders
 7-8 Secret employees of a foreign power 7-8 Science monsters run amok
 9-0 Aliens studying the human locals 9-0 Selling black-market tech
 6 Asteroid belt 1-2 Grizzled belter mine laborers 1-2 Ruptured rock released a peril
 3-4 Ancient automated guardian drones 3-4 Foreign spy ships hide there
 5-6 Survivors of destroyed asteroid base 5-6 Gold rush for new minerals
 7-8 Pirates hiding out among the rocks 7-8 Ancient ruins dot the rocks
 9-0 Lonely military patrol base staff 9-0 War between rival rocks
 7 Gas giant mine 1-2 Miserable gas-miner slaves or serfs 1-2 Things are emerging below
 3-4 Strange robots and their overseers 3-4 They need vital supplies
 5-6 Scientists studying the alien life 5-6 The workers are in revolt
 7-8 Scrappers in the ruined old mine 7-8 Pirates secretly fuel there
 9-0 Impoverished separatist group 9-0 Alien remnants were found
 8 Refueling station 1-2 Half-crazed hermit caretaker 1-2 A ship is in severe distress
 3-4 Sordid purveyors of decadent fun 3-4 Pirates have taken over
 5-6 Extortionate corporate minions 5-6 Has corrupt customs agents
 7-8 Religious missionaries to travelers 7-8 Foreign saboteurs are active
 9-0 Brainless automated vendors 9-0 Deep-space alien signal

